Let's move to Falmouth, Cornwall

This cheery place was once an important port where money and exotic
animals arrived from around the world. It still has a cosmopolitan
atmosphere today

Photograph of Falmouth harbour

Falmouth, Cornwall.


What's going for it? 
Back in the day, when the rest of the world wasn't at the end of your
Wi-Fi signal, it ended here, in Falmouth. This, being the first major
port to greet the hungry eyes of those returning from Zanzibar or
Tierra del Fuego, was once where the world began, too. You name it,
it's poured through it's cosmopolitan docks, from Charles Darwin to
Dame Ellen MacArthur. Before BuzzFeed (imagine that, young people!),
this was where news stories broke: news of victory at Trafalgar - and
Nelson's death - first hit land at Falmouth. Money, gold, exotic
animals and plant species arrived and, very often, stayed. These days
the port is not quite what it was, though its invigorating to see
cranes swinging and stevedores still heaving. But the prosperity of
the past is visible on Falmouths streets and in its subtropical
gardens, which still burst with strange flora. What a cheery place
Falmouth is, with its beaches and jolly High/Market/Church streets,
all brightly painted, open-minded and optimistic, to this day looking
outwards to the rest of the world.


The case against 
The economy is keeping its head above water, but its not all calm
seas.


Well connected? 
Trains: half hourly to Truro (26-28 mins), and then change on to the
mainline between Penzance, Plymouth and the rest of Britain. Driving:
25 mins to Truro, an hour to Penzance or St Austell. Well served by
buses.


Schools 
Primaries: King Charles CofE and St Francis CofE are "good", says
Ofsted. Marlborough and St Mary's Catholic "outstanding". Secondaries:
Falmouth School is "good".


Hang out at 
Lots of choice, from the inevitable Rick Stein's Fish to my choice,
Harbour Lights posh chippie. Great briney pubs, too, from the Chain
Locker and Seven Stars to beautiful Pandora Inn.


Where to buy 
The old centre around and above High/Market/Church streets is packed
with terraces and town houses: start around Trevethan Road.
Dunstanville Terrace on the estuary is a delightful stretch of old
town houses. Above Gyllyngvase Beach are grand leafy avenues. Also
between Glasney Road and the estuary, and around Kimberley Park.
Detacheds and town houses, 250,000-800,000. Semis, 150,000-500,000.
Terraces and cottages, 125,000-450,000. Flats, 100,000-500,000.
Rentals: one-bed flat, 525-650pcm; three-bed house, 800-1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bed terrace on Trevethan Road, 269,950 with Laskowski & Co
rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Simon Clark 
"The wonderful Wheel House for shellfish; and go to Dollys 1920s
tearoom, where they serve cocktails in the evening out of teapots.
Lots of students, who often stay on and open creative small
businesses."

Davey Payne 
"Mono is a great, recently opened little music venue."


Live in Falmouth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13 October.


Comments

No.

Depends if there's broadband there or not.

Of course we have broadband/wifi even if it could be a bit faster.
Mobile signal not always good.... but who wants to spend time
chattering when you could be on the beach or in the lovely beach caf?

I've been going to Falmouth since I was a kid and it is still a great
place to visit. There is so much to see and do there. Given the
chance I would quite happily live down there.

Will have to wait until I retire though.

Ah, lovely place where old people with money retire to, pushing up
house prices so young'uns and families cant afford to live there any
more, so the schools die, the local everyday businesses die, and all
that's left are estate agents and tea shops.

Yes noone should be allowed to move house when they retire.

 

