Let's move to Pevensey and Pevensey Bay, East Sussex

With big skies, forgotten towns and shingly beaches, this melancholy
marshland has everything to keep bleak geeks happy

Pevensey Bay

The seafront at Pevensey Bay might not be Malibu, but it is
splendidly eccentric.


What's going for it? 
We may be few, but our numbers are growing: bleak geeks, or
aficionados of picturesque melancholy. (Pretty, unthreatening
melancholy, not the post-apocalyptic kind; were very particular.) Our
homeland - Dungeness in Kent, with its power station and permanently
autumnal skies - is for sale at £1.5m. Theres money in mournfulness. A
few miles west, though, is my tip: the Pevensey Levels, beached
between Bexhill and Eastbourne. This is a rare breach in the south
coasts line of cliffs, one spotted by William the Conqueror: Normans
Bay is where 1066 and all that began. Here, you get all we bleak
geeks could possibly desire: big skies, quiet, forgotten-about towns,
roads with names like Sluice Lane, shingly beaches fronted by
settlements straight out of an Ealing comedy (Peter Sellers used to
visit his mum at Pevensey Bay)  just not for £1.5m, or anything close.


The case against 
To some fools, bleak is just bleak. The only road out is the coast
road, so escape routes are few and often bumper-to-bumper. The
railway is welcome, but cuts off the beach rather.


Well connected? 
Trains: half-hourly to Bexhill and Eastbourne (9 minutes), Hastings
(25) and Brighton (just under an hour); hourly to Gatwick (75
minutes) and Victoria (one hour 43 minutes). Driving: 15 minutes to
Eastbourne and Bexhill, 30 to Hastings, 45 to Brighton.


Schools 
Primaries: Herstmonceux CofE, Ninfield CofE, Little Common and
Hankham are all "good" Ofsted says, or you can edge in on the
catchments of schools in Bexhill, Hailsham and Eastbourne.
Secondaries: Bishop Bell CofE in Eastbourne and Hailsham Community
College are both good.


Hang out at 
The Lamb in the pin-drop-quiet village of Wartling is just the ticket.


Where to buy 
Pevensey is delightful, a tiny ancient town/village of tile-hung,
Pevensey Levels are worth exploring: see Wartling, Herstmonceux and
Pevensey Bay might not be Malibu, but it is splendidly eccentric,
with Edwardian town houses cheek-by-jowl with shacks and the
1930s-50s bungalow estate of Beachlands. Detacheds and town houses,
275,000-1m. Semis, 150,000-400,000. Terraces and cottages,
150,000-270,000. Flats, 130,000-175,000. Rentals: not much  a two-bed
terrace might go for 800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Squint and convince yourself you're living on Route 66 with a Chevy
out front at this two-bedroom oyster-style bungalow, in need of
modernisation, 189,950, with Mason Bryant.


From the streets

Philipa Coughlan 
"Two diverse communities: historic Pevensey has the castle, while near
the caravan parks is Pevensey Bay and The Moorings restaurant, which
is really good value with large plates of well-cooked food."

Jane Marter 
"Pevensey Bay have a community vibe, with lots of clubs and societies."


Live in Pevensey? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 22 September.


Comments

My husband used to go to Pevensey on holiday every year as a child,
and we continue the tradition. Wonderful. Like going on holiday in
the 1950s.

Not many interested in this one then...

Shhhh! They might come out if we all keep really still.

 

