Let's move to Chepstow, Monmouthshire

Overlooking the river Wye just before it meets the Severn, Chepstow
is a pretty town with the nations oldest stone castle

Photograph of Chepstow, Monmouthshire

Chepstow, Monmouthshire: It cuts a dash.

What's going for it? 
Chepstow sure cuts a dash. Stand on the bridge over the U-bend of the
river Wye, suspended in an ethereal, watery no man's land on the
border between Wales and England, and the town rises before you with
some hullabaloo. The 11th-13th century castle - the nations oldest
surviving stone castle, it's claimed - blasts out of sheer stone river
cliffs and, beneath it, Wales's first town puts on a welcoming show.
Its little streets, scooting hither and thither, are populated by
whitewashed buildings, medieval cottages and Georgian town houses
clambering up the castle hill, punctuated by old stone town gates and
the leftovers of St Marys Priory. Chepstow's romantic looks made it a
hot stopover in the 18th-century tourist boom that hit the Wye
valley, riverboats hugger-mugger with the Georgian equivalent of
selfie sticks (sketchbooks). Its rugged, chiselled walls weren't built
for show, though; what we swoon over today was, a millennium ago, the
tool of military occupation, Checkpoint Charlie for the Normans,
keeping their beady eye on the natives.


The case against 
A tad on the dull side. Cardiff is nearby for thrills.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly or twice hourly to Gloucester (26 minutes), and
Cheltenham (40) one way, Newport (23) and Cardiff (43) the other.
Driving: right by the M48/M4, so Bristol and Newport are 30 minutes
away, with Cardiff and the Brecon Beacons both a 40-minute drive.


Schools 
Primaries: Offa's Mead, Tutshill CofE and The Dell are "good" say Ofsted
and Estyn. Secondaries: Chepstow School is "mostly adequate", with
Wyedean "good".


Hang out at 
The Boat Inn is a good, honest, down-to-earth boozer with a fine
selection of beers. Lime Tree and Beveridge & Co do decent coffees.


Where to buy 
The old centre has cutesy-pie streets of gleaming, whitewashed
cottages and Georgian town houses, such as Bridge Street, Church
The poshest area, though, is across the river in Tutshill: streets
like Gloucester Road are dotted with smashing suburbans. New
developments like Severn Quay keep the hipsters happy. Large
detacheds and town houses, 350,000-700,000. Detacheds,
200,000-350,000. Semis, 140,000-300,000. Terraces and cottages,
130,000-200,000. Flats, 120,000-240,000. Rentals: one-bedroom flat,
450-550pcm; three-bed house, 650-850pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Two-bedroom cottage right by the river needs updating but is a steal
at 169,950 with archerandco.com.


From the streets

Andy and Helen Langton 
"The music scene is amazing, lots of folk and open mic nights. On
Sunday afternoons in the summer there are local bands on the
bandstand by the river and it's a lovely place to hang out. Not so
good: only one large supermarket, Tesco, after the Co-op closed: it
could do with some upmarket competition."


Live in Chepstow? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 1 December.

 

