Let's move to Eyemouth and St Abbs Head, Berwickshire

With a long history of seafarers, herrings and deep-sea disasters,
this little Scottish port is all about the fish

Photograph of Eyemouth

Eyemouth and St Abbs Head, Berwickshire: Still mostly a working
harbour.


What's going for it? 
In case you were in any doubt about Eyemouths raison d'etre, it is
spelled out in gigantic blue letters on a building on the harbour:
Royal National Mission To Deep Sea Fishermen. This is a seafaring
place. There are boats aplenty, chandlers, fishermen who still fish,
and companies making their living from the spoils. The landscape
gives it away, a hummocky rugged coast with great fingers of rock
that feel their way into the sea. While Eyemouth has its share of art
galleries and craft centres (even the old Mission is becoming an arts
centre), and surfers and brave souls licking ice-cream on its little
sandy beach, this is still mostly a working harbour. On the craggy
90m cliffs at St Abbs Head, the remnant of an ancient volcano, perch
countless skuas, puffins, shags and fulmars, their own beady eyes on
the fishing fleet and its booty. History here is all herrings and
fish tithes and deep-sea disasters. Its alleys and vennels are soaked
through with brine, and lashed by the North Sea like Captain Ahab.


The case against 
Small and relatively all alone. That grey stone can get you down on a
dour day.


Well connected? 
Trains: no station, though the east coast mainline nips past; the
nearest station is at Berwick-upon-Tweed, with twice-hourly trains to
Edinburgh and Newcastle (both 45 mins). Driving: 15 mins to Berwick,
an hour plus to Edinburgh and its airport. Almost commutable.


Schools 
Primaries: Coldingham, Ayton and Reston are "mostly good", Education
Scotland says, with Eyemouth "mostly good" or "very good". Secondaries:
Eyemouth High is "good" but sometimes "adequate".


Hang out at 
Fish and chips and an ice-cream parlour in one, you say? What a great
invention. And Eyemouth has two: Giacopazzis or Mackays.


Where to buy 
Eyemouth itself sets the tone, with sober, rectangular 18th- and
19th-century terraces, town houses and cottages, most in dour grey
stone, windows outlined in white and, occasionally, a daring blue. A
few streets of modern suburbans complete the picture. Ayton and
Reston are barely more than hamlets, while Coldingham is larger and
handsomely supplied in period houses. St Abbs is a beautiful teeny
fishing village of tumbledown cottages; Seaview Terrace is
delightful. Detacheds and town houses, 200,000-600,000. Semis,
115,000-270,000. Terraces and cottages, 100,000-240,000. Rentals: no
market to speak of.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bedroom detached stone cottage in Coldingham; needs updating,
165,000.


From the streets

Sara Coleman 
"The Rialto: the warm welcome, quality coffee and homemade cakes are
the best possible start to a coastal walk."

Jamie Macdonald 
"A great high school: small and friendly, with strong links to the
community. Uncrowded countryside, excellent surfing, our own little
library. Transport links are not great."


Live in Eyemouth and St Abbs Head? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 3 November.


Comments

Big battle with RNLB over closure of lifeboat station... support
keeping it open.

The absence of comment says it all.

 

