Let's move to Nantwich, Cheshire

This pretty commuter town is a prosperous place, bursting with cafes
and redbrick town houses


Nantwich, Cheshire

Nantwich, Cheshire: The decline of the salt industry ironically - but
appropriately - preserved the old centre, while the industrial
revolution got on with its business elsewhere.


What's going for it? 
The whole of humanity will eventually pass through Crewe train
station, centre of the rail universe. And a large proportion will
miss their connection, forcing them to camp out on the platform until
The Terminal, with naught but trainspotting and kiosk pasties to
entertain them. My advice: get out. Don't bother with Crewe, not that
the town lacks its moments. It's just that Nantwich, its nearby
neighbour, has more. I turned down a Ginsters in favour of a snoop
The decline of the salt industry ironically - but appropriately 
preserved the old centre, while the industrial revolution got on with
its business elsewhere. Today its prosperous, commuting having
replaced salt-making - all redbrick town houses, and a church with red
stone so fierce it looks plucked from the flames of hell.


The case against 
The lovely centre is strangled by big roads, car parks and
supermarkets; the banks of the river Weaver, ripe for picnics and
gambolling, are cut off, too. Could do with some edge to liven up the
country casual vibe.


Well connected? 
Trains: to Crewe (10 minutes) every hour or half-hour, and Shrewsbury
(30-40 minutes) every hour. Driving: 15 minutes to Crewe, 20 to the
M6, 30 to Chester or Stoke.


Schools 
Good. Primaries: Millfields, Pear Tree, Highfields and Weaver are all
"good", Ofsted says, with St Annes Catholic, Stapeley Broad Lane CofE
and Acton CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: Malbank is good, Brine Leas
"outstanding".


Hang out at 
It's pretty old-skool in town, with its Indians and Italian
trattorias. Head out to lauded old pubs such as the Thatch, or the
Yew Tree Inn at Bunbury.


Where to buy 
There's a lovely selection of property from all periods. In the old
centre, look at pretty streets such as Hospital Street, or around the
parish church, for period town houses and cottages; or nooks such as
South Crofts for small Victorian terraces. The exceedingly handsome
Welsh Row has the finest selection, from half-timbered Tudors to
Georgians. Suburbans: look south and west around Wellington Road and
Shrewbridge Road, including redbrick Victorians; Marsh Lane; and,
east, around Crewe Road. Large detacheds and town houses,
300,000-750,000, occasionally up to 1m. Semis, 140,000-500,000.
Detacheds, 200,000-300,000. Terraces and cottages, 120,000-180,000.
Rentals: one-bed flats, 420-550pcm; three-bed houses, 650-1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Two-bedroom Victorian terrace just north of the centre; needs an
update; 95,000 with Martin & Co.


From the streets

Margaret Whitehead 
"There are more places to have coffee and cake than anywhere else in a
100-mile radius. A hidden gem is the Caf de Paris, tucked away down
an alley in Hospital Street."

Chris Driver 
"I really like the outdoor brine pool - summer swimming in a salt
spring-fed pool. The Words & Music festival is the highlight of my
year."


Live in Nantwich? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 28 July.


Comments 

Nantwich Sandwich

A better name for this review should be, "When a pompous prick visits
a normal northern town." One of the worst things I have ever read,
hope you get dunked in the bankless River Weaver before you're packed
back to London you smarmy gobshite.

 

