Let's move to St Asaph, DenbighshireIt punches above its weight with an international music festival, but
this cathedral city is the size of a village

St Asaph: "Blink and you'd miss it."St Asaph:
"Blink and you'd miss it."What's going for it? 
I had no idea who St Asaph was either. He's not one of your premier
league saints, more Sunday Conference. In the Penguin Dictionary of
Saints, he's described as a "very shadowy figure", though one praised
by monks for his "charm of manners, grace of body and holiness of
heart", phrases that could also be applied to the cathedral city named
after him. Having lived half my life in them, I know cathedral cities
are a state of mind as much as an actual thing, a peculiar amalgam of
conservatism and centuries of cosmopolitanism, misericords and
eclectic heritage, with a dash of Trollope (even this far north and
west) and a certain civility of living, the kind that demands the
survival of nice old butchers' shops. St Asaph passes the test. Though
I use the word city with some caveats, of course. The place punches
above its weight, culturally, with its international music festival
this month, and its copy of the first Welsh Bible proudly on display.
But this is no Winchester or Norwich. Blink and you'd miss it - with
barely 3,500 souls, it is the country's second smallest city. And,
yes, they take the word seriously round here, having applied three
times to be called a city before fortune smiled on them three years
ago. Don't, whatever you do, mention the V-word.

The case against
The V-word: whisper it, it's a village. Or, in a generous mood, a
modest market town. Traffic: give the place a bypass, won't you? It's
had its share of flooding in recent years.

Well connected? 
Trains: the nearest station is a 15-minute drive away at Rhyl, with
hourly trains to Conwy (23 minutes), Bangor (40-ish) and beyond; or
west to Chester (35). Driving: the A55 storms through: 15 minutes to
the coast, 20 to Conwy or Llandudno, 40 to Bangor or Chester.

Schools 
Primaries: Esgob Morgan and St Asaph Infants are "good", Estyn says.
Secondaries: Uwchradd Glan Clwyd is "good", too.

Hang out at... 
This is no gastronomic hotbed, but the White House is a nice, modern
place to repair to.

Where to buy 
So small, it's hard to go wrong, but east of the river is the favoured
spot. Hunt for Victorians around Mount Road; nice homes on the Upper
Denbigh Road, as well. Detacheds and town houses, £150,000-£800,000.
Semis, £110,000-£250,000. Terraces/cottages, £90,000-£180,000.
Rentals: not much of a market - a three-bed detached house might go
for £850pcm.

Bargain of the week 
A large and elegant former chapel; needs permissions and complete
conversion, but a real opportunity at £90,000; with Williams Estates.

From the streetsDavid Roberts 
"Aka Llanelwy in Welsh. Good food at the Bod Erw and the Plough, good
butcher in Daniel Jones, Foxons for anglers, plus lovely river walks."

Luca Soave 
"Jacob's Ladder: a small cafe with delicious sandwiches and homemade cakes. Tweedmill farm shop: excellent Vale of Clwyd lamb and a good selection of Welsh beers."Do you live in Holmfirth, West Yorkshire? Do you have a
favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 8 September.CommentsSounds wonderful!how about Tesco!! have they arrived ?

and so corrupted the local council?No. We are safe from corruption ;-)It is fantastic and the only reason I'd move is to have even better
views. No Tesco locally, happy to have only Coop. Sainsburys,
Morrisons and Lidl within a few miles. Local council is doing pretty
well overall. Brilliant to be living in such a gorgeous place with
areas of outstanding natural beauty on the doorstep. Immensely
important historical sites and buildings, coast, mountains, outdoor
activities and opportunities aplenty. If I didn't live here, I'd move
here! 

