Let's move to Holmfirth, West Yorkshire

What, I wonder, will happen to the town when the last person who has
watched Last Of The Summer Wine finally croaks?

Photograph of Holmfirth, West Yorkshire

Holmfirth, West Yorkshire: You can still visit the Wrinkled Stocking
tearoom, named in honour of Nora Batty.


What's going for it? 
It's a double-edged sword, fame. You get the big bucks, the people
staring at you, the stretch limos. But then, as John Updike put it,
Celebrity is a mask that eats into the face. It ends up imprisoning
and consuming you. Five years after it stopped being made, Last Of
The Summer Wine is still playing in Holmfirth, its unfictional
setting. You can visit the Wrinkled Stocking tearoom, named in honour
of Nora Batty, or Sid's Cafe, followed by an afternoon at the Last Of
The Summer Wine Exhibition and (of course) gift shop, where you can
experience Compo's house in every detail, down to the disreputable
sleeping garments. The world's longest-running TV comedy (so they say,
you'd better believe it) has left deep roots here. Along with All
Creatures Great And Small, and Heartbeat, the Last Of The Summer Wine has defined a certain
type of northernness, which finds physical form in its drystone
walls, stone cottages and little from the past 50 years. What, I
wonder, will happen to the town when the last person who has watched
Its a sturdy place, for sure, full of community life and culture. And
remember: where there is Gold and Yesterday, the Last Of The Summer Wine will always be
alive.


The case against 
What do you think? If you're not a fan, though, you can, just about,
escape Compo and live a normal and, indeed, modern life.


Well connected? 
Train: Brockholes, just to the north, has hourly trains to
Huddersfield (13 minutes), Barnsley (35) and Sheffield (just over an
hour). Car: 20 minutes to Huddersfield, 25 to the M1 and the M62.


Schools 
Many primaries "good", with Netherthong, Thurstonland and Brockholes
CofE outstanding. Secondaries: Holmfirth High is "outstanding".


Hang out at 
Sid's Cafe, of course.


Where to buy 
Holmfirth itself, a little node of pretty weaver's cottages tumbling
down Holme Valley. Hunt on South Lane and, west, Binns Lane up to
Upper Thong. But the settlement and its baggy, artsy feel extends to
delightful hamlets and villages, such as Netherthong and New Mill.
Think cottages, barn conversions. Large detacheds and town houses,
600,000-1.3m. Detacheds, 250,000-600,000. Semis, 200,000-550,000.
Terraces and cottages, 100,000-320,000. Rentals: one-bed flats about
400pcm; three-bed houses, 550-700pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bed, stone, listed end-of-terrace, requiring modernisation,
174,950, with William Sykes.


From the streets

Bob Vant 
"The Nook - not so much a pub, more an institution. It changes, so its
not stuck in a time warp, but never loses its friendly, unpretentious
character."

Angela Mitchell 
"The area is popular with cyclists, especially since the Tour de
France came through last year."


Live in Holmfirth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 6 October.

 

