Let's move to Barnet, north-west London

House prices are outrageous, council services have been slashed, the
centres full of chain stores - but the views are lovely

At least the parks are free - for now, anyway.


What's going for it? 
If you want to see the future, certainly for the next five years,
come to Barnet. This, of course, is home to what used to be nicknamed
easyCouncil, a Tory experiment in extreme outsourcing and
self-flagellation, with the council embarking on the kind of drastic
weight-loss diet usually reserved for cover stars on Take A Break. It
hasn't been that easy for some. There have been squats in closed
libraries, and a fair amount of hullabaloo on the streets. Let's just
say we're in Ultra Tory Land here. I'm clutching at the end of both
straws and tethers to find things to recommend to you, should you
fancy a jaunt up the Great North Road. It's on a hill! Lovely views!
Only the house prices are outrageous, even for London, so you won't be
able to stay for long. Super parks, too - they're still free. For now.


The case against 
Downtown Barnet is terrifically humdrum, all chainy, with Specsavers,
Superdrugs and takeaway curry houses. I'm guessing the posh stay
behind their electric gates.


Well connected? 
Your choice of tube line terminuses: Cockfosters on the Piccadilly or
High Barnet on the Northern, 40 or 30 minutes to central London.
Trains: New Barnet to Moorgate (30 minutes); north to Welwyn Garden
City (20). Driving: 10-15 minutes to the M1 and M25, 15-20 to
Finchley and the North Circular.


Schools 
Primaries: Monken Hadley CofE, Christ Church, Cromer Road and All
Saints CofE are all "good", Ofsted says, with Foulds and Whitings Hill
outstanding. Secondaries: Queen Elizabeths (boys) is outstanding,
while Totteridge Academy and Jewish Community are "good".


Hang out at 
You can have your fill of Toby Carveries round here. Escape the
chains at the Duke of York, an old coaching inn, and pity the horses
that used to have to climb the hill.


Where to buy 
It's all mansions and McMansions. Top dollar is the conservation area
in Hadley, Hadley Green and Monken Hadley; by the time you get to
Totteridge, you're in oligarch-land. Also west, on and off Barnet
Road, to Arkley, Rowley Green Lane and Arkley Lane. You will find
normality, though, in little spots of Victorian terraces, like
Falkland Road, and south and east, where you're in suburban-semi-land.
Its cheaper towards Cockfosters. Large detacheds, 900,000-2.5m, up to
5m for mansions. Semis, 400,000-1.2m. Detacheds, 650,000-900,000.
Terraces and cottages, 375,000-625,000. Flats, 250,000-600,000.
Rentals: one-bed flats, 850-1,250pcm; three-bed houses,
1,500-2,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A large four-bedroom early 20th-century semi, in need of
refurbishment, 809,950, with Maunder Taylor via rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Valerie Kemp 
"The worst thing is the congestion, especially on the Great North Road
from New Barnet to Whetstone."

John Worrall 
"High points on the high street include the excellent Victoria Bakery.
Barnet College students add life to the area."


Live in Barnet? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 4 August.

