Let's move to Welshpool, Powys

Are huge castles and half-timbered cottages your thing? Look no
further

Welshpool

Welshpool, Powys: For thrills, flat whites and big shops, you'll have
to schlep to Shrewsbury.


What's going for it? 
Where Wales begins runs the tourist slogan - with good reason. The
border with England is just over the Long Mountain (neither
particularly long nor mountainous, by the way). The town has long
come to terms with people, politics and sheep shuffling this way or
that as events demand, but the size of Powis Castle makes it clear
which side of the border the town prefers to be. It is one of those
humongous ones Wales specialises in, only this was built not by the
English to subdue the nation with stone, hard stares and arrows, but
by the last hereditary prince of the old kingdom of Powys, Owain ap
Gruffydd ap Gwenwynwyn. Dolled up as a stately home in the 18th
century, today it contains the booty hauled back from the
subcontinent by Clive of India, that supposed epitome of Englishness
who was born over the border in Shropshire. What's old Clive doing in
Wales? He married into the Powis family. See: borders can stop many
things, but they cant stop love (and lust).


The case against 
Lights are not bright, so for thrills, flat whites and big shops,
you'll have to schlep to Shrewsbury.


Well connected? 
Trains on the Cambrian Line are hourly to Newtown (13 mins),
Machynlleth (50 mins) and Shrewsbury (25 mins). Driving: 30 mins to
Shrewsbury, 20 mins to Newtown. Buses circulate to local villages,
Shrewsbury, Oswestry, Newtown and Llanidloes.


Schools 
Primaries: Leighton and Ardywn Infants are "good", says Estyn, with
Oldford Infants "good" with "outstanding" features. Secondaries:
Welshpool High is "good".


Hang out at 
It's no foodie haven, alas, but tea rooms like the Bay Tree or
Lychgate hold the fort, along with traditional pubs such as the Raven
Inn.


Where to buy 
There's not much of the town. The old bit, hanging off its elegant
curving High Street, is resplendent in Georgiana, with half-timbered
black and white cottages in between and a good dose of Victoriana.
There are some imposing Georgian town houses in deep red brick on
Salop Road. For suburbans, head north, from Red Bank to Brookfield
Road. Large detacheds and town houses, 200,000-375,000. Detacheds,
140,000-200,000. Semis, 125,000-250,000. Terraces and cottages,
100,000-150,000. Rentals: few; a one-bedroom flat might be around
400pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bedroom listed Georgian town house, 195,000 with harryray.com.


From the streets

Natalie D 
"Powis Castle is pricey (its run by the National Trust) but has
wonderful gardens, and the market hall is in a lovely building,
although the stalls arent much to write home about. Theres also the
steam train that goes from Welshpool to Llanfair. Theres lots going
on in Welshpool, despite it looking a bit tired and old-fashioned at
times."

Karen Lesley Rodenburg 
"We're quite spoilt for such a small rural town. The fabulous Bistro 7
is only small but often full. And other good places to eat include
the Corn Store and the Royal Oak."


Live in Welshpool? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 14 July.

 

