Let's move to the east Norfolk coast

Fashionable before it started falling into the sea, this stretch of
coast has great beaches and affordable property. Just watch those
waves

Photograph of Happisburgh, Norfolk

East Norfolk: Catch it while you can.


What's going for it? 
A cautionary tale about property. Before the North Norfolk Coast was
the North Norfolk Coast, the East Norfolk Coast was the North Norfolk
Coast. If you see what I mean. The stretch east of Cromer became the
place to be seen in the late 19th century, after the Daily Telegraph
theatre critic Clement Scott stumbled upon the quaint fishing hamlet
of Overstrand and wrote about the idyllic cottages of what he dubbed
Poppy-Land. Fancy friends, such as actors Ellen Terry and Henry
Irving, followed, and soon all sorts of metropolitan types wanted a
piece of this patch of Norfolk. Country piles, cutesy cottages and
slick hotels were built by cutting-edge architects including Edwin
Lutyens, and Overstrand became the village of millionaires. Then
someone realised they were building on land as sturdy as cookie
dough. Cliffs fell, grand designs dissolved into the sea. Less snooty
holidaymakers took root in chalets and bungalows. Today this stretch
can still be idyllic, with lofty church towers, flinty barns and
dunes. Just don't get too close to the waves.


The case against 
Pick your spot verrrrry carefully. The advance of the sea is taken
seriously here. Some parts are more developed than others, with
holiday chalets, bungalows, gas terminals and the like, so you might
have to root about a bit.


Well connected? 
Trains: from North Walsham and Cromer, hourly to Norwich (30-50
minutes). It's a 40-minute drive to Norwich, and the A149 up the coast
takes about an hour from Cromer to Caister.


Schools 
Primaries: the Belfry C of E, Northrepps, Bacton, Happisburgh C of E,
Rollesby, Winterton and Ormesby Village are all "good", Ofsted says,
with Martham "outstanding". Secondaries: Cromer Academy and North
Walsham High are "good".


Hang out at 
Mines a battered haddock from Winterton Fish Bar. But the Gunton
Arms, inland in Thorpe Market, is my favourite pub in the universe.


Where to buy 
Not too near the waves. If postwar chalets are your thing, try
Caister and California. Most attractive, though, are the old
villages: some, such as Waxham and Happisburgh, quite remote; others 
Winterton, Munsdesley and Overstrand  more developed, but with old
hearts of flinty walls. Detacheds and town houses, 150,000-900,000.
Semis, 150,000-400,000. Terraces and cottages, 100,000-200,000.
Flats, 70,000-150,000. Lots of chalets, 12,000-70,000. Rentals: a
three-bed house, 600-750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Six-bed Victorian terrace from Overstrand's heyday, needs an update;
320,000 with Abbotts.


From the streets

Selina Fellows 
"Hang out on the fabulous sandy beaches. Explore the Broads by boat or
on foot  its like a trip back in time. Property is fantastic value,
especially compared with north Norfolk."

Angelo Monni 
"Culturally, its a bit of a desert, unless you go to Norwich. Much of
the population are retired, and there are few professional jobs."


Do you live on the east Norfolk coast? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 15 December.


Comments

Can you stop putting stuff online the day before I see it the
Saturday paper please, you bastards. I'm trying to give you some
fucking money here...

Pay for the app, a snip at 69p.

The app is shite.

As though things weren't bad enough already, what with sea erosion and
a Tory government, this week in The Guardian, Sauron's eye turns
towards....

Jeremy Corbyn?

