Let's move to Marlow, Buckinghamshire

It was good enough for Percy and Mary Shelley

Let's move: Marlow

Marlow, Bucks: 'A little too la-di-da.'


What's going for it? 
Marlow is one of the original down-from-Londoners honeypots.
Something about its pretty, ickle historic streets, and the
dreaminess of the Thames here, hung heavy with weeping willows and
boatclubs, has for centuries pulled in those sick of the Smoke - like
Percy and Mary Shelley, probably after peace, quiet and a better
work-life balance than they could get in the capital, with its
streets running with ordure and don't even talk to me about the cost
Marlow must have been like Whitstable or Margate before the arties
moved in. Now it's full, ta very much, its streets piled high with
cash in the form of long-term property investments. I think you can
safely assume that when you can find a wide selection of champagne in
a corner shop, you aren't in Kansas any more, Toto.


The case against 
A little too la-di-da, for me at least. And the High Street's terribly
chainy, all Prezzos, Zizzis and Starbucks.


Well connected? 
Socially? Of course. Physically? OK. Trains: there is a branch line
station  two or so trains an hour, with a change, to London
Paddington (just over an hour); hourly, with a change, to Reading (45
mins). Or drive 10-15 mins to quicker stations at High Wycombe or
Maidenhead. Roads: the A404 dual carriageway can clog, but it gets
you to the M4 in 20 mins and the M40 in 10; the M25 and Heathrow
Airport are 30 mins with a fair wind.


Schools 
Primaries: Spinfield, Marlow CofE Infants and Holy Trinity CofE are
"outstanding". Secondaries: Great Marlow is good, Sir William Borlases
Grammar "outstanding".


Hang out at 
Good food doesn't always follow money, but here it's chomping at the
bit, with Tom Kerridge's two-Michelin-starred pub, The Hand & Flowers,
centre stage.


Where to buy 
Wherever you can afford. Much, if not most, will be out of your
league - and don't think about getting close to the river. Moorings are
like gold dust. The banks are lined with hefty period piles. Round
the old town, though, you'll find cottagey Victorian terraces,
slightly less expensive, and drop-dead-gorg lanes like St Peters
Street. Some groovy 1960s homes, too. Most affordable are the postwar
estates. Large detacheds, 800,000-3m, and up to 7m for vast piles.
Detacheds, 500,000-800,000. Semis, 450,000-900,000. Terraces and
cottages, 350,000-650,000. Flats, 200,000-500,000. Rentals: one-bed
flats, 800-1,100pcm; three-bed houses, 1,100-2,600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A three-bed postwar terrace is on at 312,500 with andrewmilsom.co.uk.


From the streets

Gillian Hustwick 
"Villa d'Este, a friendly Italian restaurant with consistently
delicious food and the best sweet trolley in the world."

Scott Pickard 
"Marlow's been spoiled by the self-interested, mansion-building
uber-rich. It's a cultural desert with no cinema, theatre, or music
venue."


Live in Marlow? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 11 August.


Comments

Apparently, the Five Find Outers stories by Enid Blyton were set in
Marlow.

(I might be wrong, apologies)

Train to Paddington at peak commuting times often requires two
changes, Bourne End and Maidenhead. Marlow Bridge is a horror to get
over at any time after 8 am. A few half decent boozers, perhaps a bit
diet-Henley.

 

