Let's move to Devizes, Wiltshire

Theres a lot of history in this West Country town - much of it about
long-dead cheating scumbags

Devizes: It forgets nothing.



What's going for it? 
There is a stern tale told on the Market Cross in Devizes of one Ruth
Pierce. She was at the market one day hunting for a bargain sack of
wheat with friends. They decided to pool their money, but when it was
time to pay they found they were short. Ruth swore on her life shed
paid up. She rashly repeated this awful wish, intones the Cross, when
to the consternation and terror of the surrounding multitude, she
instantly fell down and expired, having the money concealed in her
hand. Devizes forgets nothing - either long-dead fibbers like Pierce,
or the drip, drip, drip of history. You can see it in its streets.
Caught between the ancient earthworks of the Wiltshire Downs and the
guns of Salisbury Plain, Devizes has seen it all; it has grown slowly
over the centuries, and is now crammed with listed buildings like the
Market Cross, each with their own tales to tell of errant citizens.
Don't be a cheating scumbag in Devizes, or they'll carve your misdeeds
in stone.


The case against 
This is no Frome or Totnes, those cool West Country towns full of
downshifting cyberpunks. It could do with a bit of their mojo. You
get the sense olives are still regarded as exotic.


Well connected? 
Relatively isolated. The rail line sweeps by, but doesn't stop. So
you're reliant on (pretty slow) roads: its half an hour to the M4 and
Swindon north, and the A303 south. Bath is 50 minutes. There's always
the Kennet & Avon canal.


Schools 
Primaries: Southbroom Infants, Wansdyke and Nursteed Community are
all good, says Ofsted. Secondaries: Devizes School is good.


Hang out at 
The town has decent pubs like the Bear or the Lamb, and an
interesting restaurant in the Bistro, with its cooking school. Head
out of town to the George & Dragon at Rowde for posh.


Where to buy 
With around 500 listed buildings in the centre, you won't want for
heritage. Start at the oldest spot - Castle Grounds - and work your way
out. There's property from every period. Long Street is especially
rich in architecture. Farther out, hunt along roads like Bath Road,
for Victorians. Suburbans: the south side is plummest, from Potterne
Road and Broadleas Park to Wick Lane. Detacheds and town houses,
300,000-800,000. Semis, 175,000-450,000. Terraces and cottages,
125,000-250,000. Flats, 90,000-150,000. Rentals: one-bedroom flats,
around 500pcm; three-bed houses, 800-1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
For full-on history geeks, a 16th-century, two-bedroom cottage
needing improvement and overlooking St Johns Church; 170,000,
hunterfrench.co.uk.


From the streets

Carol Watkinson 
"Last summer the seagulls were unbearably noisy and dirty, but the
eggs are being removed now and we shall see if it works."

Lesley Mills 
"Awash with festivals and live music. And a good mixed population:
discreet posh, arty farties, active and engaged middle-aged, farmers,
the disaffected and the unfortunate."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 25 August.


Comments

No, let's not. This is a very nice town, near to me and the Guardian is
ahem..... a London based paper .....

Don't do it. Everyone is related.

Everyone is related - not sure of the relevance here though.

No, that's Andover.

 

