Let's move to Soho, central London

The beating heart of the city can be surprisingly friendly

Photograph of Soho

Soho, central London: A rather nice place to live.


What's going for it? 
If you know it only for its history of bohemian boozing and strip
clubs, or its present of luxury investment flats and Crossrail
building sites, you won't know that Soho can be a rather nice place to
live. Especially for the elderly and children: old people can have a
great time hanging out, and everyone looks out for local kids.
Someone who recently moved to a shoebox Soho flat from a family house
in Shepherd's Bush says she and her daughter have found far more sense
If you rent (and how could you ever afford to buy?), the prices can
be relatively affordable. OK, we said relatively. Please don't shout.


The case against 
Drunks urinating on your doorstep at night. Rampant gentrification
means your favourite greasy spoon won't be there in the morning. If
you have a family, your child will never learn to climb a tree.


Well connected? 
It is the connection. Soho is the very centre of London, with Charing
Cross, Euston and Kings Cross stations all within walking distance. A
£1bn redevelopment of Tottenham Court Road tube station means
Crossrail will get to Heathrow in 28 minutes from 2019. Good luck
parking a car in Soho, though.


Schools 
Soho Parish CofE primary is "good", says Ofsted - and they're building a
vertical climbing playground. St Josephs Catholic primary is
Soho for secondary schools: within the borough of Westminster, Grey
Coat Hospital for girls is "outstanding"; Westminster City School for
boys is "good". One of the closest secondaries outside Westminster is
the mixed Maria Fidelis Catholic school in Camden, which is rated
"good".


Hang out at 
Where to start? Bar Italia (real coffee and people watching), The
French House for creative types, Trisha's basement bar The Marshall
Street leisure centre, a glorious, refurbished, listed, Victorian
swimming pool.


Where to buy 
The odd cluster of Georgian houses on Meard Street, Brewer Street and
Soho Square. Most housing is flats, from new builds to mansion block
conversions. Also ex-council flats in tower blocks. Town houses, from
6m. Penthouse apartments, 5m. Three-bed flats, 2m; two-bed, 1m-2.5m;
one-bed, 700,000-1.5m; studios, 450,000-800,000. Rentals: studios,
1,400-2,000pcm; one-bed flats, 1,700-2,500pcm; two-bed, 2,000-6,000;
three-bed, 3,700 upwards.


Bargain of the week 
A one-bedroom flat on Berwick Street, 765,000 with Barnard Marcus via
rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Derek Brown 
"Sadly, Berwick Street market isn't what it was, but the diversity's
amazing."

Joy Lintoff 
"The best thing is always having your friends come to see you. Look at
flats on Berwick or Poland Street, which aren't so crazy at night."


Do you live in Soho? Join the debate below.


Live on the east Norfolk coast? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, please email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 17
November.


Comments

Really? Does the continual criticism of the Guardian being too London
centric simply wash over you leaving no trace? The rents, never mind
the purchase price are, for most people a sad joke. Is it some sort
of attempt to piss people off or what?

The rich mock the poor, Warren Buffet said a while back that there is
currently a war between the rich and the poor.... and the rich are
winning.

The Guardian being too London centric.

And yet, at the bottom of this very page are four links to recent
articles in the "Let's move to ..." series. They are for towns in
Leicestershire, Berwickshire, Shropshire and Kent.

London is the capital of the UK, seat of its government and home both
to many of its most important institutions and roughly one in eight
of its people. If it didn't get a lot more coverage in the Guardian
and other media than provincial towns and cities, something would be
very wrong.

I think me and the wife will look for a house in Soho, because the
cost works out to be much the same, when you factor in 80 years of
commuting by private helicopter.

The bike is much cheaper.

So stop being such a snob and take the public helicopter like the
rest of us.

 

