Let's move to Sydenham, south-east London

It may be suburban, but this leafy area has great property and a
gritty edge

Tower blocks in Sydenham, south-east London


What's going for it? 
Sydenham, like Surbiton, Pinner, Sidcup and its neighbour Penge, has
one of those names redolent of suburbia. I can imagine Mr Pooter here
in his Victorian villa, Reggie Perrin in a semi on Woodbastwick Road,
Victor Meldrew at number 23, Hyacinth Bucket next door... a whole
neighbourhood of thwarted ambition and suburban rage. Not a bit of
it. That's not to say Sydenham isn't suburban. It boomed after the
Crystal Palace upped (iron) sticks and moved here in 1854; a legion
of suburbanites followed suit, drawn to Sydenham's greenery and airy
hills. Camille Pissarro, no less, painted its streets. But having
been long ago swallowed up in London's maw, the neighbourhood today
is a marvellously grittier affair. There are still leafy streets of
Pooterish gothic villas, though leavened with a cosmopolitan high
street glittering with (unfancy) independent shops and marvellous
Turkish grocers selling cabbages the size of atom bombs and tomatoes
that taste of tomatoes.


The case against 
The main drag gets clogged with traffic. There are, perhaps, a few
too many charity shops and fast food outlets. 


Well connected? 
Yes. Trains from Sydenham to London Bridge (21 mins) or East Croydon (12
mins); Lower Sydenham to Charing Cross (23-26 mins); Sydenham Hill to
Brixton (7 mins) and Victoria (14 mins). Overground from Sydenham to
West Croydon (14 mins) and Highbury & Islington (37 mins). Driving,
40 minutes to the M25.


Schools 
Primaries: Alexandra Junior, Our Lady & St Philip Neri RC, Elfrida,
St Michael's CofE, St Bartholomew's CofE and Kelvin Grove are all
"good", says Ofsted, with Haseltine "outstanding". Secondaries:
Harris Academy Bromley, Sydenham and Forest Hill are all "good".


Hang out at... 
The Brown & Green Brunch Kitchen in Mayow Park. Don't forget your
pram/stroller.


Where to buy 
Great property of all ages. Sydenham itself, around the station, has
magnificent avenues of Victorians around Lawrie Park Avenue, Mayow
Park and Alexandra Park. Upper Sydenham has grand houses, social
housing and some fine postwar housing. Towards Lower Sydenham the
terraces get smaller, but more affordable. Detacheds £1.2m-£1.8m.
Semis, £1.2m. Terraces, £400,000-£1m. Flats: three bedrooms,
£500,000-£700,000; two bedrooms, £260,000-£500,000; one bedroom,
£225,000-£340,000. Rentals: one-bed flats, £950-£1,100pcm; three-bed
houses, £1,500-£2,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Two-bedroom postwar terraced house in Upper Sydenham, £400,000 with
foxtons.co.uk.


From the streets

Rory Collins 
"Close to villagey Crystal Palace and the growing pomp of East
Dulwich; and central London is easily accessible with the
Overground."

Sarah Thompson 
"Kirkdale bookshop - independent, with a great secondhand section."

Hannah Verdier 
"Upper Sydenham has great family homes. Lower Sydenham is more
affordable."


Live in Sydenham? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 29 September.


Comments

I live here.
It's lovely.

It has some lovely streets but I am not sure the gritty bits are an
attraction?

 

