Let's move to Ramsgate, Kent

"It's not yet chock-full of craft-Vimto-supping artisans with their
cupcake-lardy-cake mash-up startups"

Photograph of Ramsgate, Kent

Ramsgate, Kent: 'It has some champion architecture.'


What's going for it? 
I've told you lot about Ramsgate before, but did you take any notice,
did you buffalo. No, it's all Margate this, Margate that. A few miles
round the Great Bend of Thanet (as nobody calls it), though, there's
Ramsgate, always a cut above in my mind. For a start it's not yet
chock-full of craft-Vimto-supping artisans with their
cupcake-lardy-cake mash-up startups. Its sandy beach faces south, not
north, so the sun doesn't disappear at 2pm. It has some champion
architecture: great battalions of battered Regency terraces march
round the hills, giving on to creaky alleys of cottages here, avenues
of clifftop arts and crafts villas there. It is, if not cheap
(nowhere's cheap south of St Neots), then affordable. And, despite a
high-speed train link to London and a dolled-up patch around the old
harbour, it has not been "regenerated" - for better or worse.


The case against 
It has its shabbier (not in a good way) ends, and the High Street is
pretty humdrum: explore streets off the beaten track for eccentrics.
Needs a lift: first the ferry went, then Pfizer in Sandwich. The
station's a stiff walk from the centre.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly to London St Pancras (75 mins) and a couple an hour to
Charing Cross (just over two hours) via Dover (35 mins), Folkestone
(45 mins) and Ashford (75 mins); hourly to London Victoria (two
hours). Locally, several an hour to Margate, Broadstairs, Sandwich,
etc. Driving: 40 mins to Canterbury and the A/M2, 45 to Folkestone
and Ashford.


Schools 
Primaries: St Ethelbert's RC, Newington Community and Chilton are
"good", Ofsted says, with Holy Trinity CofE "outstanding".
Secondaries: Chatham & Clarendon Grammar and the Royal Harbour
Academy are "good".


Hang out at... 
Sorbetto ice-cream parlour, or Vinyl Head for music and great coffee.


Where to buy 
Great homes of all shades, in good period nick. Start with East Cliff
and West Cliff for Regency town houses and terraces: try Spencer
Square, then West Cliff Road, Royal and Crescent Roads (Ellington
Park) and Grange Road. North to Dumpton Park and west to Pegwell for
stately suburban avenues. Large detacheds and town houses,
£325,000-£700,000. Detacheds, £250,000-£325,000. Semis,
£150,000-£325,000. Terraces and cottages, £130,000-£325,000. Flats,
£65,000-£400,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £450-£600pcm; three-bed
house, £675-£775pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Plenty of houses divided into flats ripe for reconversion: this
four-bed Victorian is £245,000 with milesandbarr.co.uk.


From the streets

Dan Whitehead 
"With the Ramsgate Music Hall, there is a real music-driven vibe
here."

The Reynolds family 
"We moved from London seven years ago and it's now absolutely
buzzing. Caboose does lush avocado on toast."

Kate Kneale 
"Walk along the sandy beach to Broadstairs, stopping at Sam's for a
bacon sarnie."


Live in Ramsgate? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20 October.

 

