Let's move to Dorchester, Dorset

Hardy's Dorset is a distant memory in this modernised town, but
there's affordable property aplenty - and it's a great base for some
stunning countryside

Dorchester: 'Maybe we have to look for Hardy in a different shape
these days.'


What's going for it? 
Staying in the Premier Inn, Dorchester, I struggled to channel Thomas
Hardy. You can't escape the man here - his birthplace is just
outside, his home just inside, his statue is on the High Street, and
his precious scribblings in the local museum. And yet he seems a
universe away. There are whiffs in those spots where you can edit out
modern Dorchester, walking along the river Frome's water meadows,
perhaps, or along the Walks, Roman walls rebooted as bourgeois homes,
or blinkered beside the ancient Maumbury Rings. But maybe we have to
look for Hardy in a different shape these days. Maybe Tess now works
on reception at the Best Western, or as a waitress at Carluccio's.
There's precious little of Jude the Obscure in Dorchester's bonkers
heritage Alphaville, Poundbury. But maybe that's him I can see,
sitting downcast on the pavement with his dog and a cap, asking for
change.


The case against 
Regeneration has come to Dorchester, and it's certainly a lot
livelier and fresher looking than when I was last here. But there's a
creeping Anywheresville to the modern arrivals. The A35: can get
nasty.


Well connected? 
Two stations: Dorchester South (to Weymouth, Bournemouth and London);
and Dorchester West to Bath and Bristol. Driving: 15 mins to Weymouth
and the coast, 45 to Bournemouth, an hour to the M5 at Taunton.


Schools 
Very good. Primaries: Damers First, Prince of Wales, Manor Park CofE
First and St Osmund's CofE Middle are "outstanding". Secondaries: the
Thomas Hardye is "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
I adore the fabulous Butter Market Bakery in Poundbury.


Where to buy 
The old centre has town houses aplenty, and Victorian terraces on and
off the High Street and towards Fordington. There are suburbans and
Victorians on the avenues south of Damers Road, and near the Walks.
Plenty of little estates of 50s and 60s homes by the bypass, like
Manor Park. And there's always Poundbury - loads for sale. Brewery
Square is your loft-style development for Dorchester's hipsters.
Large detacheds, £400,000-£650,000. Detacheds, £250,000-£400,000.
Semis, £200,000-£450,000. Terraces, £180,000-£325,000. Flats,
£130,000-£600,000. Rentals: one-bedroom flats, £450-£650pcm;
three-bed houses, £750-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bed maisonette in a Victorian house on Damers Road, £190,000
with connells.co.uk.


From the streets

Joanna Jeffery 
"Great for families, and education is really strong, with lots of
collaboration between schools and colleges."

Kathie Prince 
"Steeped in history, surrounded by stunning countryside and a stone's
throw from the Jurassic Coast. It's also a brilliant place to live if
you enjoy singing - lots of choirs!"


Live in Dorchester? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 7 July.

 

