Let's move to: Church Stretton and the Shropshire Hills, Shropshire

A cute, slumbering market town set in an incongruously wild landscape

Photograph of Church Stretton, Shropshire

Church Stretton, Shropshire.


What's going for it? 
When I was a tweenie, I used to read the Lone Pine adventures by
Malcolm Saville, tales of derring-do by a secret society of children
in wartime Shropshire, set among the moorlands of Wenlock Edge and
the Long Mynd. The landscape was as dramatic as the plotlines, a
savage character in itself, thrilling to someone like me, exposed
only to the benign hills of Buckinghamshire. Truth here follows
fiction, or vice versa. Church Stretton itself might be a cute
affair, a small, rather slumbering market town of delis and tea
shops, decked out in black and white half-timbers. But the Victorians
who flocked to the spa here, and began the rambling over the moors
that continues to this day, nicknamed the area Little Switzerland.
The Long Mynd won't exactly give the Matterhorn an insecurity complex,
but there is a touch of the incongruously wild and gothic about the
Shropshire Hills, as if Heathcliff had got lost and wandered a bit
far south.


The case against 
A little snoozesome. It lacks the cultural vibrancy of its neighbour,
Ludlow.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly-ish to Shrewsbury (15 minutes) and Crewe (50) and
Manchester (100-130 minutes); or south to Ludlow (15), Hereford (41)
and Cardiff (just under two hours). Driving: 25 minutes to Shrewsbury
and Ludlow, 70 to Birmingham.


Schools 
Primaries: the town's St Lawrence CofE is "good", says Ofsted; as are
nearby Rushbury CofE, Wistanstow CofE and Corvedale CofE.
Secondaries: Church Stretton secondary (rated "good" by Ofsted);
outside town are Mary Webb School in Pontesbury and the "good"
Community College in Bishops Castle.


Hang out at 
Berry's is the local stalwart, for frothy coffee or something
stronger. The Royal Oak in nearby Cardington is your ideal country
pub for end-of-walk conk-outs.


Where to buy 
This is a small market town, so you can't really go wrong. The old
centre has Tudor cottages, Georgian town houses, gabled Victorians,
plus Edwardians. The market, like the town, moves slowly. Check out
surrounding villages too, or the even prettier, even more
half-timbered Bishops Castle. Large detacheds and town houses,
400,000-600,000. Detacheds, 240,000-400,000. Semis, 180,000-400,000.
Terraces and cottages, 175,000-250,000. Flats, 130,000-250,000.
Rentals: very, very little round here. A three-bedroom house might be
600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Remove the PVC windows and you've got a period gem: three-bedroom semi
for 149,950 with mccartneys.co.uk.


From the streets

John Whitelegg 
"It is a friendly, vibrant community in a truly beautiful area. The
current problem is Shropshire Council's plan to close our wonderful
library in its present historic building  everyone has rallied round
to keep it where it is."

Emma Alston 
"The landscape is awesome. But its full of elderly folk."


Do you live in Church Stretton and the Shropshire Hills, Shropshire?
Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 27 October.

 

