Let's move to Tottenham, north London

It's affordable - for London - and gentrification is creeping into this
most ethnically diverse area

Photograph of Tottenham

Tottenhams shops sell anything from borek to bubble tea.


What's going for it? 
The cranes are rising. Regeneration has arrived, not for the first
time. Hot on its heels comes an upstart in skinny jeans:
gentrification. Gentrifiers would hardly be the first new arrivals up
the A10. Until the late 19th century, Tottenham was more like
Hampstead, a posh, villagey affair clinging to the banks of the river
Lea. Then the railways arrived, bringing the lower echelons and the
rest of the known universe. Today, Tottenham is one of the most
ethnically diverse spots on the planet, its extraordinarily ordinary
streets singing with Kurdish, Portuguese and Congolese, its parks
like Lordship Rec alive with tai chi and BMXers, and its shops
selling anything from borek to bubble tea. Its not all world peace
and harmony, but as it braces itself for tens of thousands of new
homes, let's hope this latest change brings Tottenham the contentment
it deserves.


The case against 
High unemployment and more than its share of social problems. It is
trying hard to shake off the negative press after the 2011 riots;
even Broadwater Farm 30 years ago casts a shadow still. Traffic very
snarly around the North Circular.


Well connected? 
Very. Trains: three tube stations on the Piccadilly and Victoria
lines (Oxford Circus in 15 minutes) and (count em) five train
stations: Tottenham Hale is the fastest, with eight trains an hour to
Liverpool Street (15 minutes), and four an hour to Stansted (40).
South Tottenham is on the overground from Gospel Oak to Barking.
Driving: 25 minutes to the M25; 40 to Stansted.


Schools 
Primaries: many are good, says Ofsted, with Holmleigh, Springfield
Community, Crowland and Harris Academy Coleraine Park "outstanding".
Secondaries: Northumberland Park and Park View are "good"; Gladesmore
Community "outstanding".


Hang out at 
There's a lot of love for the Beehive and the Beavertown Brewery, but
with Turkish cafes, goat curry and newbies like the Chicken Town
social enterprise, you won't go hungry.


Where to buy 
Plummest are the Clyde Circus conservation area, around West Green
Road and Philip Lane, for Victorian semis and terraces. Tower Gardens
Estate is an early 20th-century garden suburb and, today, very
affordable. Gets a bit pricer in South Tottenham, around Seven
Sisters and towards Stamford Hill and Stoke Newington. Terraces:
400,000-950,000; Flats: 200,000-450,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
900-1,500pcm; three-bed house, 1,600-2,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A two-bed terraced house on the Tower Gardens estate, yours for
324,950 with Kings Group.


From the streets

Taslima Shahjahan 
"I love open spaces like Bruce Castle Park, Tottenham Marshes and the
river Lea."

Lorna Carsley 
"I'm loth to extol the virtues of N17 as its the last remaining
affordable (depending on your definition) place to live in zones 2/3.
But buses take you everywhere, and Lordship Rec is a lovely open
space tucked behind Broadwater Farm."


Do you live in Tottenham? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 December.

