Let's move to Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire

Move here and you'd better like food

Photograph of Melton Mowbray

Melton Mowbray: It's modest enough.


What's going for it? 
Melton Mowbray has the kind of name that sounds just like it is:
rich, full-bodied, plump, Ken Clarke-crossed-with-Brian-Blessed,
rounded and pink. Like a pie. They're proud of their pies round here,
and rightly so. The locals campaigned tirelessly and successfully for
them to be protected with PGI status, like Stornoway black puddings
and Yorkshire Wensleydale. They have pie festivals and eating
contests. Cafes and sundry butchers trumpet them in their windows.
Melton Mowbray is one of only a few spots allowed to produce stilton,
and the fates of pies and cheese have been entangled here for
centuries: the pigs raised for the pies were fed the whey left over
from cheesemaking. Veggie or nose-to-tail, though, one things for
sure: move here and you'd better like food. After all, this is, toots
its town signs, the Rural Capital of Food.


The case against 
The town itself is modest enough. It's all about food. Suffers rather
from commuter-itis, surrounded by ballooning suburbs. Gentle (aka a
tad boring) countryside.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly to Leicester (16 mins) and Birmingham (68 mins) one
way, Peterborough (40 mins), Cambridge (90 mins) and, eventually,
Stansted Airport the other; you can make London in 90 minutes, with a
change at Leicester. Driving: 30 mins to Leicester, a little more to
Nottingham, 30 mins to the M1 and a little more to East Midlands
airport.


Schools 
Mixed. Primaries: Brownlow is "good", and Swallowdale "outstanding", says
Ofsted. Secondaries: John Ferneley College is "good".


Hang out at 
The 14th-century Anne of Cleves pub, once home to monks. Or the Noel
Arms, with its Gas Dog brewery. Nice Pie for, er, pies.


Where to buy 
The best homes are south, on and off Dalby Road, and the wodge
between it and Burton Road  good Victorians. Keep looking as far as
Burton Lazars. Also, north, on and off Scalford Road. You won't want
for suburbans. Cheaper Victorians fringe the town centre. Large
detacheds and town houses, 300,000-700,000. Detacheds,
180,000-300,000. Semis, 130,000-250,000. Terraces and cottages,
100,000-180,000. Flats, 80,000-200,000. Rentals: one-bedroom flat,
300-500pcm; three-bedroom house, 500-650pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A three-bedroom Victorian terraced house, just off Burton Road; needs
updating; 119,950 with newtonfallowell.co.uk.


From the streets

Judy Wills 
"At Miss B's Tearooms, step back in time to enjoy poached egg on
muffins, and cakes to die for. Nostalgia-laden heaven."

Jan Cadwallader 
"Having tea and toasted teacakes at the Pavilion Caf is a must."

John Horn 
"Desperately needs a bypass. Heavy vehicles regularly clog up the town."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 10 November.

 
