Let's move to the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire

Its a magical place of elves, hobbits and Yodas - and if you drink
enough local cider, you might even see a few

Let's move to the Forest of Dean

Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire: 'It's not entirely a rural idyll.'


What's going for it? 
During my teenage years in Worcestershire, the Forest of Dean was a
magical, mythic place local crusties talked about, in which elves
lived, geography field trips were partaken, and cider was said to
flow in the plumbing like water. When I eventually visited - yes, on a
geography field trip - no cider, to my dismay, was found in any
stopcocks, and elves were thin on the ground. But this land island
between England and Wales, the Severn and the Wye, is a mysterious
place where wild boar roam, and a community of artists and writers
has long kept its culture alive. The dense woodland and singular
history, combining mining and rustic picturesqueness, is said to have
inspired Tolkien to write The Lord Of The Rings. JJ Abrams is thought
to have filmed scenes for the new Star Wars movie deep inside. And
even this cynic can picture hobbits and Yodas snuffling around the
oldest oak forest in England, especially after a cider.


The case against 
Those wild boar get a bit frisky. It can be a bit suburban in parts,
especially around the edge of the forest. It's not entirely a rural
idyll.


Well connected? 
Driving: you can make Chepstow, Ross-on-Wye and the M50 in 30 mins,
the M4 and Gloucester in 40. Train: the nearest station is at Lydney,
with hourly trains to Chepstow (10 mins), Gloucester (20), Newport
(30) and Cardiff (52 mins).


Schools 
Good. Primaries: many rated "good" by Ofsted, including Mitcheldean,
Woodside and Drybrook. Secondaries: Dene Magna "outstanding".


Hang out at 
There's an embarrassment of country pubs: the Ostrich in Newland, the
Glasshouse Inn, Longhope, and the Dog & Muffler, Joyford, are
idyllic. Tudor Farmhouse serves good local food.


Where to buy 
You can find all sorts, from 30s semis to 60s bungalows, especially
in the more suburban ends of the forest, like Cinderford and
Littledean (lots of new-builds here, too). But hunt for gems such as
adorable stone farmhouses, cottages and old mill houses. It's priciest
towards the Severn, in delightful towns like Blakeney, with its
lovely architecture, Newnham and Lydney; and towards the Wye Valley,
in places like Hope Mansell, Lydbrook or Coleford. Quite a few
bargains, and homes in need of updating. Large detacheds and town
houses, 350,000 up to 1.2m. Detacheds, 145,000-350,000. Semis,
110,000-270,000. Terraces and cottages, 90,000-200,000. Rentals:
one-bed flats, 350-525pcm; three-bed houses, 600-750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bedroom Georgian town house in Newnham; needs an update; 225,000
with sellahouseonline.co.uk.


From the streets

Steph Culpin 
"Stunning views, fresh air, loads of outdoor pursuits, an abundance of
local artisan products to tantalise the tastebuds."

Fiona Wilton 
"People know each other. We can buy food at the farm gate and send
kids to the village school. Night skies are starry. The negatives? No
nightclubs. Is that a negative?"


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 18 August.


Comments

Don't ask who killed the bear.

Never mention the bear.

Never ever mention it. Especially not in jest.

 
