Let's move to Jesmond, Newcastle upon Tyne

It's got great architecture, incredible countryside and beaches
nearby, and people wearing shorts in December - what more could you
want, except balmy weather?

Photograph of Jesmond

Jesmond, Newcastle upon Tyne: it almost has it all.


What's going for it? 
Today's breakfast debate: why aren't we all living in Newcastle?
Really. Right now. What (OK, apart from balmy weather) does it not
have? It has smashing citizens. A dramatic setting, pinched by Tyne
valley. Great, gutsy, sod-you architecture. Sparkling culture. A
Geordie corniche down at the Quayside, with people sipping pina
coladas in shorts in December. Stottie cakes. Jobs (some, anyway).
The most incredible countryside half an hour away. The most
incredible seaside 20 minutes away. For your fancy-pants it has
artisan this, that and the other. For your unfancy-pants it has
unreconstructed, unironic caffs. And it all comes together in
Jesmond. Here university lecturers bump into their students over
dirty burgers at Fat Hippo. It's the Tyne's Left Bank, only on the
north bank, and actually not on a bank at all, just a 15-minute walk
from the river. You know what I mean: one of those urbane
neighbourhoods that planners dream of. If only we could do something
about the weather


The case against 
Some spots are more studenty, so if you don't want the Inbetweeners
next door, choose carefully. Lots of competition for property.


Well connected? 
Newcastles centre, with its beautiful station, is a 30-minute walk.
Trains: its on the Metro, to Tynemouth (25 mins), Gateshead and
Sunderland, or the airport (20 mins). Driving: to the coast in 20
mins, to Durham in 40 mins.


Schools 
Primaries: St Catherines RC, Christ Church C of E are "good", says
Ofsted, and West Jesmond outstanding. Secondaries: Heaton Manor is
good, St Mary's Catholic and Gosforth Academy "outstanding".


Hang out at 
Hepcats hang in Ouseburn, at Ernest and Cook House. Jesmond has Fat
Hippo, coffee at Willis and date nights at Jesmond Dene House.


Where to buy 
Three conservation areas. Jesmond Dene beside the Ouse, with avenues
of Victorian and Edwardian villas. Brandling Park has handsome town
houses, many overlooking Town Moor. South Jesmond has a knot of
Victorian terraces. Smaller town houses and terraces around Osborne
Avenue and Queens Road, and the neighbourhood heart at St Georges
Terrace. Detacheds and town houses, 400,000-1.5m. Semis,
500,000-600,000. Terraces and cottages, 200,000-450,000. Flats,
100,000-380,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, 550-700pcm; three-bed house,
750-1,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 
You want a project? Twelve-bedroom (yes, 12, open a B&B) Georgian
town house with its own coach house; needs updating. 1.2m with
Groves.


From the streets

Michelle Whitworth 
"Cycle along its leafy avenues and lanes, with small shops, cafes and
restaurants."

Garreth Cummins 
"Peace & Loaf, run by MasterChef finalist Dave Coulson, is a great
restaurant."

Helene Brandon 
"West Jesmond is popular with better-off students, so plenty of
drinking holes and restaurants. Harvest cafe for delicious flat
whites."


Do you live in Jesmond? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 22 December.


Comments

Love Newcastle, but Jesmond's full of wankers.

You must be from Killingworth.

Because his mind's not Wideopen?

I love Newcastle, but think this is a rather rose-tinted view of
Jesmond, to be honest. Sure, a couple of decades ago it used to be
where the lecturers, teachers and doctors of the city lived, but it's
since been taken over by the buy-to-letting parents of the ex-public
school university students, who have turned Jesmond into something
akin to an undergraduate Clapham. Although it can be quite pleasant
outside of term time, it's a very long way from being Newcastle's
equivalent of the Left Bank...

I came to a similar conclusion then, it was a lovely looking area and
well situated, but too many posh students living in a house bought my
I loved Jesmond Dene for walking off a hang over though, and there
used to be an amazing take away pizzeria run by an Italian guy who
had a massive cat.

True. It was a desirable place 20 years ago. Not now.



