Let's move to Lyme Regis

Three decades on, take a stroll around the little fishing town whose
fortunes were changed for ever by a film

Lyme Regis, Dorset: It has an appealing edge of shabbiness and
normality again.

Lyme Regis, Dorset: It has an appealing edge of shabbiness and
normality again.


What's going for it? 
Never has surf looked so sexy. Never, until that Scottish Widows ad,
has a woman in a cloak seemed so smouldering. When Meryl Streep
appeared on Lyme Regis's Cobb in The French Lieutenants Woman in 1981,
this little fishing towns fortunes changed for ever. You'll still find
the films posters up in the shops; there is, I warn you, a French
Lieutenant's Bistro, where you can eat scallops while being doused by
buckets of seawater (not). The film can be blamed for the
(re)gentrification of the British seaside. An entire generation was
ready to up sticks and live a life crabbing on the Cobb the minute
they left the cinema  until they saw the property prices. Three
decades later, though, despite Mark Hix opening up, and despite
begetting Southwold and Whitstable and Padstow and all, Lyme Regis
has an appealing edge of shabbiness and normality again. And while I
won't say it's cheap, the rest of the West Country has caught up - even
overtaken it. It's all Broadchurch these days, see. Meryl who?


The case against 
Very little. It's not especially well connected and not quite as cute
as new pretenders to the crown of England's Poshest Seaside Resort.
Traffic and crowds are a nightmare in summer.


Well connected? 
Axminster is a 15-minute drive away, with hourly trains to London
(three hours) and Exeter (40 mins). Driving: you're at the mercy of
the capricious A35. When it's moving, 45 mins to Dorchester or
Weymouth, or west to the M5.


Schools 
Primaries: St Michaels CofE is "good", Ofsted says; the splendidly
named Mrs Ethelstons CofE and Woodroffe secondary are "outstanding".


Hang out at 
The Town Mill Bakery is superlative, as is their new enterprise in a
converted petrol station out of town: the Rousdon Village Bakery.


Where to buy 
Not loads on the market: people tend to stay, and property moves
fast. There's all sorts, from medieval thatched cottages through
Georgian, Regency, Victorian and Edwardian villas to modern
swankpads. The old centre has myriad alleys around Church Street;
lanes towards Uplyme have the poshest homes, with views across the
bay. Large detacheds and town houses, 500,000-1m. Detacheds,
280,000-500,000. Semis, 220,000-450,000. Terraces and cottages,
200,000-300,000. Flats, 140,000-300,000. Rentals: rare  a three-bed
flat might be 800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Go unpicturesque for vague affordability, such as this three-bed
terrace: 209,995 with Palmer Snell.


From the streets

Rene Wyndham 
"You keep fit by default in Lyme Regis: the steep, thriving high
street is just one of a myriad hills in the town. Fossil shops vie
with fish and chip shops for trade."

Isabel Janicki 
"The museum is a gem of local history and Jurassic coast displays.
Their fossil walks are brilliant - ask for Chris!"


Live in Lyme Regis? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by 1 September.

 

