Let's move to Tadcaster, north Yorkshire

This friendly little market town is dominated by the Sam Smiths
brewery

Tadcaster, north Yorkshire: The friendly people of Tad just get on
with it.


What's going for it? 
If Yorkshire appeals but you find Leeds too urban and sprawling, and
York too touristy and twee, then squint between the two on a map and
If you head there, you won't need to look for it so much as sniff it
out, since Tad has been dominated by its brewing industry for, ooh,
about 800 years, thanks to the limestone water. As a result, the town
may smell a little fruity, but it's actually quite pleasant: the Sam
Smiths brewery (not to be confused with the pop star) still employs a
cooper, a signwriter and an ostler, its shire horses making local
If this sort of thing was happening anywhere near London, they'd be
spaffing on about their artisan values in a chunky hipster typeface
and hoiking up their prices. As it's the friendly people of Tad doing
what they've always done, they just get on with it. The town sits
astride the river Wharfe, is surrounded by fields, and is in a very
flat bit of Yorkshire, so kids can ride their bikes for hours as if
PlayStations never happened. Perhaps.


The case against 
Compared with more majestic small Yorkshire towns, Tad can feel a bit
drab.


Well connected? 
Driving is excellent, as the A1 and M1 both pass nearby, while the
A64 neatly joins Tadcaster to York and Leeds. Leeds Bradford airport
is a 45-minute drive. Tadcaster no longer has a station, but nearby
Ulleskelf and Church Fenton do, with trains to Leeds, York and
Sheffield. Buses to York and Leeds.


Schools 
Primaries: St Josephs Catholic and Riverside are both "good", says
Ofsted; Tadcaster East "requires improvement". Secondary: Tadcaster
Grammar is "good".


Hang out at... 
Sapori di Napoli on Westgate for good Italian food, or the Tea Lounge
for tea and sandwiches (unbelievably, you have to book).


Where to buy 
Station Road is a leafy area seconds from the centre, while on the
other side of the river are more modern estates. Its all a bit
cheaper than York. Large detached houses in neighbouring villages,
380,000-450,000. Detacheds in town, 200,000-380,000. Bungalows,
165,000-325,000. Semis: 150,000-270,000. Flats: 80,000-235,000.
Rentals: two- to three-bed house, 600-800pcm. Flats, 425-550pcm.


Bargain of the week 
18th-century, Grade II-listed house, with planning permission for two
more houses in its enormous garden, 550,000 with rentonandparr.co.uk.


From the streets

Dan Cruces 
"Tadcaster community swimming pool is beautiful, and the staff are all
volunteers."

Gillian Lodge 
"Great place to live and bring up children, low crime rate. Two great
butchers."

Caroline Anderson 
"Lovely walks along the river, under the 1840s viaduct that never
actually became a railway."


Live in Tadcaster? Join the debate below.


Do you live in Jesmond, Newcastle upon Tyne. Have a favourite haunt
or pet hate? If so, please email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
24 November.

 

