Let's move to Ripley, Derbyshire: the most English town in Eng-er-land

Don't come expecting ye olde Morris dancers and chocolate box mead
drinkers. This is the kind of quintessential England not found in
tourist brochures

Street in Ripley, Derbyshire

Ripley, Derbyshire: If you want cosmopolitan, you're in the wrong
place.


What's going for it? 
This is England. On this, St George's Day, what better place to visit
than Officially The Most English Town in Eng-er-land. A study by
University College London a decade ago found that Ripley, smack bang
in the middle of the country, had the highest proportion of residents
with English ethnic origins  88.6%  with its neighbour Heanor not far
behind. What makes the Amber valley, wedged between Derby and
Nottingham, such a hotbed of Englishness is a bit of a mystery, but
don't come expecting ye olde Morris dancers and chocolate box mead
This is the kind of quintessential England not found in tourist
brochures. Think instead of redbrick terraces, suburban piles with
pillars and electric gates, smashing chippies, 1920s semis, the odd
tearoom, a Premier Inn, Lidl, Wilko and Wetherspoons, and a Friday.
This is not Downton Abbey (though Newstead Abbey isn't far away).
Ripley is ordinary England, in the best sense of the word.


The case against 
If want cosmopolitan, you're in the wrong place, though there is a
Chinese.


Well connected? 
Trains: the nearest station is 10 minutes away at Alfreton:
half-hourly to Sheffield (30 mins), or Nottingham (20-30 mins).
Driving: 15 mins to the M1, half an hour to the Peak District,
Nottingham and Derby.


Schools 
Primaries: St Johns CofE, Waingroves and Codnor Community CofE are
all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Ripley Academy "requires
improvement", but nearby Swanwick Hall and Belper are "good".


Hang out at 
The Chinese takeaway.


Where to buy 
Between Nottingham and Derby Roads, you'll find streets of semis and
terraces from the 19th century to postwar; check out around Broadway,
Lyncroft Avenue, Ballacraine Drive, Heath Road, Manvers Street, etc.
Theres a tight core of the reddest of redbrick Victoriana around
Heage Road. South, between Derby Road and Warmwells Lane, there are
decent neighbourhoods of mixed housing. On and off Hartshay Hill, out
by the A38, for commuter suburbans. Large detacheds and town houses,
200,000-500,000. Detacheds, 130,000-200,000. Semis, 110,000-275,000.
Terraces and cottages, 90,000-150,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
325-400pcm; a three-bedroom house, 525-650pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Two-bedroom terraced house on the appropriately named Albion Road,
94,950 with Your Property Ladder. 


From the streets

Anna Telling 
"It's an affordable place to live, with great access to the Peak
Districts beautiful, wild scenery. Worst things: social/economical
problems due to unemployment and poor opportunities."

Nigel Hunt 
"It has always had a rough reputation. But it's friendly, except on a
Friday night when its best to keep your children away from the
centre."


Live in Ripley? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 26 April.

 

