Let's move to Farnham, Surrey

A handsome market town, straight off an old tin of Quality Street,
its resisting the urban sprawl now blighting much of Surrey

Photograph of Farnham street

Farnham: It's the kind of place you can imagine Jane Austen popping
into for candlewick and a flat white.


What's going for it? 
Once upon a time, Surrey was lovely. This is the original Stockbroker
Belt, where you escaped the Great Wen to live the rural dream. These
days, its countryside - Surrey Hills excepted - is essentially one
great suburb, while its towns, once cute as a button, now gasp for
air under ringroads and malls. Then you visit Farnham: Officially the
Nicest Town in Surrey. It's the kind of place you can imagine Jane
Austen - who lived one town down the Wey Valley - popping in to for
candle wick and a flat white. It looks straight off the old Quality
Street tins, all bow-fronted shops, cupolas and greengrocers with
stripy awnings. The only disappointment is that its citizens wear Fat
Face and JoJo Maman Bb, not bustles and top hats. Sad face.


The case against 
It once had a radical side - William Cobbett was born here - and still
has a thriving cultural scene, much courtesy of the Maltings, but its
an upper-middling chain kinda place: think Prezzo, Zizzi, Brasserie
Blanc. Twee.


Well connected? 
Trains: half-hourly to London Waterloo (55-61 minutes). Driving: 20
mins to the M3, 30 mins to the M25, an hour to Southampton, a little
over to central London, and 45-60 mins to Heathrow or Gatwick.


Schools 
Primaries: Highfield South Farnham, Waverley Abbey Junior, St Peters
C of E and Rowledge C of E are all "good", says Ofsted, with St
Polycarps (who?) Catholic "outstanding". Secondaries: Farnham Heath End
is "good", and Weydon "outstanding".


Hang out at 
Take your pick from the pubs in town  The Wheatsheaf, Queens Head and
the Nelson Arms  or, further out, The Spotted Cow.


Where to buy 
Start in the handsome old centre, with its streets of Georgian town
houses, half-timbered and Queen Anne cottages: Church Lane and Castle
Street for starters. Some great Victorian terraces beside Farnham
Park. Further out, larger period semis and detacheds on and off
Firgrove Hill, Frensham Road, Lower Bourne and Waverley Lane, and
Wrecclesham, with its cottagey conservation area around Pottery Lane,
and Rowledge. Large detacheds and town houses, 700,000-2m. Detacheds,
400,000-700,000. Semis, 250,000-500,000. Terraces and cottages,
200,000-400,000. Flats, 180,000-300,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat,
600-800pcm; a three-bed house, 1,250-1,800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A characterful two-bedroom cottage in the conservation area, a short
stroll from the town centre; 330,000, with Bridges.


From the streets

Chris Locke 
"If you can bear Jeremy Hunt as your MP, its a beautiful market town,
with amazing open spaces and a degree-level art college."

Dale McDonald 
"The Bat and Ball is a great local, with real ales on tap and a huge
beer garden."

John Bell 
"A wonderful Georgian town steeped in history, but slowly being
overrun with traffic."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 26 January.

 

