Let's move to Llanrwst, Conwy

You might be high in the Himalayas

Llanrwst


What's going for it? 
It's easy to forget the rest of the world exists when you're eating a
slice of bara brith beside the Tu Hwnt lr Bont tearooms elegant,
three-arched bridge, all hairy with virginia creeper, like Hagrid out
of Harry Potter. Llanrwst is deep in the Conwy valley, walled in by
Snowdonia one way and its foothills the other. A blanket of hush
envelops this artsy, majority Welsh-speaking town. You might be high
in the Himalayas, inviolable. A few centuries ago, when Llanrwst was
one of the biggest towns in Wales, it blew a great fat raspberry to
Edward I and his flunkeys, and declared independence with its own
flag and motto. And even as late as 1947 the local council, it is
said, made an application for recognition to the United Nations.
Spirited lot, this. Mind you, they need to be: the outside world has
a habit of always creeping in. Or, er, flooding in...


The case against 
Last Christmas, the Conwy burst its banks. The town has been known to
flood before. There are new flood defences, but exceptional weather
is pushing them hard.


Well connected? 
Trains: a station! In rural Wales! Trains every two or three hours
south to Betws-y-Coed (12 minutes) and Blaenau Ffestiniog (40), north
to Llandudno (also 40); change at Llandudno Junction for the north
coast mainline. Driving: its 25 minutes to Conwy, 30 to the seaside
at Llandudno and 45 to Bangor. The T4 Conwy Valley Line bus plies
between Blaenau Ffestiniog and Llandudno, too.


Schools 
Primaries: the town's Bro Gwydir is "good", Estyn says. Secondaries: its
Dyffryn Conwy is "good", too.


Hang out at 
Bara brith at Tu Hwnt lr Bont, of course, two local landmarks for the
price of one.


Where to buy 
The historic old town is all monochrome, whitewashed walls, faux
black timbers or grey stone, in cottages or town houses. Worth a
gander. Otherwise, for suburbans, hunt northwards on Llanddoged Road,
and south towards Melin-y-coed, on and off Fford Berthddu and Nebo
Road. Large detacheds and town houses, 250,000-450,000. Detacheds,
250,000. Semis, 120,000-170,000. Terraces and cottages,
105,000-150,000. Flats, 70,000-140,000. Rentals: not much  a
three-bed house, 600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A three-bedroom Victorian stone detached house, in need of updating,
260,000 with Express Estate Agency rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Rhonda Stevens 
"We moved from Surrey three years ago  gorgeous scenery and a very
friendly town. I miss the big shops, but theres Chester for that, an
hour away."

Anna Dixon 
"The coffee shop at Ffin y Parc  delicious cakes and small exhibitions
of local artists. Great to while away a few hours if its raining.
Gwydir Castle is also a great day out."


Live in Llanrwst? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com


Comments

In before the "don't you dare move here from London" comments...

Exactly. London being the only place people ever move from, obviously.

There are lots of reasons to move from Workington

Peidiwch  symud yma , oni bai eich bod yn barod i ddysgu Cymraeg .. a
dod  20 o swyddi yn rhy. Don't come unless you are prepared to learn
Welsh and to bring 20 jobs too.

Friendly place, is it?

I know a few Welsh people who live in France, they don't speak a word
of French.



