Let's move to Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire: it's enemy territory

This is mostly a land where Boris Johnson is default

Henley-on-Thames: 'Everyone wears Fat Face, when not in regatta
blazers.'

Henley-on-Thames: 'Everyone wears Fat Face, when not in regatta
blazers.'


What's going for it? 
We are deep in enemy territory here, chaps, I thought, as I eyeballed
the single, dusty, tumbleweed-strewn copy of the Guardian in the
newsagents. "We normally have five," said the man on the cash till,
"or so." George Orwell might have grown up little Eric Blair in
Shiplake, a few leafy streets down, but this is mostly a land where
Boris Johnson is default. And everyone wears Fat Face, when not in
regatta blazers. Back in 2011, Britain's most expensive home was sold
here. Yes, even more expensive than anything in Londongrad. And owned
by a fugitive Russian banker. You can see how a certain view of the
world is confirmed by one's surroundings. It certainly is lovely
here, exceedingly pretty, all wisteria-clad 18th-century tiles and
freshly painted as if the Queen is about to pop by. Which she
probably is. Poverty appears to have been eradicated, or at least
shifted out of sight. Which is not to say you can't find the odd,
vaguely affordable patch in paradise. You could hole up there, a spy,
like Orwell. Come on, we could start the revolution!


The case against 
Edge-less. You will be outnumbered, outspent and out-chino-ed. One
can have too much wisteria.


Well connected? 
Trains: two, sometimes one an hour to Twyford, where you can change
on to the mainline, making Reading 25-32mins and London just over an
hour. Buses to Oxford and London. Driving: Reading is 25 mins, the
M4, 15 mins, Heathrow in half an hour, Oxford in 50 mins.


Schools 
Primaries: Trinity CofE, Badgemore, Valley Road and nearby Shiplake
CofE are "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Gillotts is "good".


Hang out at... 
Warm ale in spruced-up pubs such as the Angel; posh nosh at the (I
assume) ironically named Orwells, in Shiplake.


Where to buy 
The old centre is delightful, a wonderful mix of ages, from
half-timbered cottages to Edwardian semis. Snoop around Friday Street
and New Street: you won't be able to afford it, mind. It's nice, too,
west to Friar Park, and around Fairmile and Lambridge Wood Road.
Large detacheds and town houses, £800,000-£4m. Detacheds and smaller
town houses, £600,000-£800,000. Semis, £450,000-£1.25m. Terraces and
cottages, £400,000-£600,000. Flats, £325,000-£600,000. Rentals: a
one-bed flat, £875-£975pcm; a three-bed house, £1,250-£1,750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
By London standards. Think postwar. Like a 50s two-bedroom semi for
£375,000. With davistate.com.


From the streets

Lucy Roy 
"A friendly town nestling in the Chilterns. Good mix of shops
including my favourite, Adventures In Living, an interior design shop
and, of course, a Waitrose!"

Emma Leatham 
"The perfect combination of beautiful countryside and lively town
life. But traffic over Henley Bridge can be a nightmare."


Live in Henley-on-Thames? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 21 June.


Comments


Do you live in Plumstead, south-east London?

Then tough shit

"And everyone wears Fat Face, when not in regatta blazers"...

Well, better than pink jumpsuits all the time. I opine.



