Let's move to Canterbury, Kent: it's getting its mojo back

With its universities, fruity history and fabulous streetscapes,
nestled deep in the North Downs, 10 minutes from the sea, it's always
had the potential to out-boogie its parochial air

Canterbury, Kent: 'The past few years have seen its cultural life get
a fillip.'

Canterbury, Kent: 'The past few years have seen its cultural life get
a fillip.'


What's going for it? 
The one good thing about London self-destructing with property price
madness and artisan Ovaltine cafes (the next big thing) on every
corner is that everyone with a brain cell is leaving for other towns
- such as Canterbury. In the 1990s, when I lived here, it was so
uncosmopolitan that asking for cappuccino was like asking for
emerald-dusted unicorn juice. It wasn't always thus. Read Chaucer. In
the 14th century, when Canterbury was Pilgrimopolis, it must have
been livelier than the Wife of Bath's nightie. Now it's getting its
mojo back, no longer sucked dry by its proximity to London; rather
The past few years have seen its cultural life and economy get a
fillip. With its three universities, fruity history and fabulous
streetscapes, nestled deep in the North Downs, 10 minutes from the
sea, it's always had the potential to out-boogie its parochial air.
Now its modish coffee bars sell not just cappuccinos but
single-estate, fully traceable frappeflappaflippafloppacinos. Beat
that, London.


The case against 
It's still a small city and, despite legions of tourists, not
terrifically diverse.


Well connected? 
Trains: to Ashford (16 mins), Maidstone (55 mins), St Pancras (56
mins), Victoria (from 1hr 30) or Charing Cross (1hr 40). Driving: 30
mins to Ashford or Folkestone, 90 to London.


Schools 
Primaries: St Stephen's, Parkside, St Peter's Methodist, the
Canterbury, Wincheap Foundation are all "good", Ofsted says, Blean
and St Thomas of Canterbury Catholic "outstanding". Secondaries: the
Archbishop's and Simon Langton Girls' Grammar are "good", Barton
Court Grammar and Simon Langton's Boys' Grammar are "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The Goods Shed, with its wonderful stalls and cafes. Water Lane
Coffeehouse and Micro Roastery for the burgeoning coffee scene.


Where to buy 
Cathedral cities, with centuries of history, gather diverse homes,
from a 15th-century cottage to a Georgian town house. Around the
walls are huggermugger lanes such as the Friars; main roads out of
town, including Wincheap, have cheaper cottages and town houses. For
suburbans, around New and Old Dover Roads (such as the Victorians on
Cromwell Road), Whitstable Road or St Stephen's. Detacheds and town
houses, £300,000-£1.2m. Semis, £250,000-£600,000. Terraces and
cottages, £220,000-£425,000. Flats, £150,000-£400,000. Rentals:
one-bed flat, £700-£1,100pcm; three-bed house, £900-£1,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 
It needs modernisation, but this three-bed postwar semi is a steal at
£150,000, with milesandbarr.co.uk.


From the streets

Chris Prior 
"HS1 has been a gamechanger: 50 minutes to London, with new trains
that run on time. A downside: the high proportion of students to
locals creates tension."

Charlotte Cornell 
"Only 15 minutes to the coast by bus or car to foodie Whitstable, or
Herne Bay, which is beginning its Margate-style renaissance."


Live in Canterbury? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 11 October.


 

