Let's move to Aberaeron, Ceredigion: 'It's dolled up like an ad for
Dulux'

It's a pretty former fishing town where every house is painted a
jaunty hue

Aberaeron harbour surrounded by colourful regency styled houses

The harbour.


What's going for it? 
Beautiful Aberaeron is dolled up like an ad for Dulux (other paint
brands are available). As is the fashion these days for pretty former
fishing towns reliant on tourists, every house is painted a jaunty
hue so that, viewed from the hills above, Aberaeron resembles a
three-dimensional swatch card, or a 1970s fruit salad. There's Berry
Smoothie and Cranberry Crunch, Lemon Punch and Ginger Glow 4, Sea
Blue, of course, and I'm sure I spot a Bermuda Cocktail. Some (the
posh ones) have opted for Farrow & Ball, though in this chromatic
battle, Elephant's Breath is no match for Kiwi Burst. A doughty few,
however, turn a blind eye. Their cottages are slathered in whitewash,
or grey pebbledash. Porridge Plop, perhaps. Dour, but authentic.
Fishing towns like Aberaeron, back when they actually fished, were
serious places, soaked in heartache and hard work. No time or money
for home decor. Porridge Plop was as good as it got.


The case against... 
Schools could be better. Far, far away, but then, that's the point.


Well connected? 
Very much not. Trains: the nearest station is Aberystwyth, a
25-minute drive away, from which Shrewsbury (hourly) is an hour and
50 minutes and Birmingham (every two hours) three hours. Driving:
Cardigan's about 40 minutes, Carmarthen 50.


Schools 
Primaries: the latest report for Ysgol Gynradd Aberaeron says that
it's "adequate". Secondaries: the town's Ysgol Gyfun Aberaeron is,
alas, "unsatisfactory", says Estyn.


Hang out at... 
The big culinary cheese in town is the Harbourmaster. Though I can
heartily recommend the cod, chips and mushy peas at New Celtic, and
the gin menu at Hive.


Where to buy 
The heart, huddled round the harbour north of North Road, was built
in the 1830s. It's gorgeously preserved, with double-fronted late
The town gets Victorian and later the further out you go. Harbour and
sea views have a premium. You'll find similar, cheaper properties
once you leave town; try Aberarth. Large detacheds and town houses,
£400,000-£700,000. Detacheds, smaller town houses and large terraces,
£200,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£200,000. No great
rental market.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bed unmodernised (un-brightly-coloured) period semi just outside
Aberaeron, in Aberarth, £192,000 with morgananddavies.co.uk.


Live in Aberaeron? Join the debate below


From the streets

Dylan Davies 
"It's the jewel in the crown of Cardigan Bay; picturesque, with
quirky independent shops. The only frustration is not having more
affordable homes."

Nigel Davies (no relation): 
"We're on the extreme edge of Wales, but well connected: 16 miles to
Aberystwyth, and a four-hour drive to London."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 4 October.


Comments

It's the back of beyond. Move there only if you voted Brexit.

The people of Ceredigion voted to remain in the EU.

It's pretty, but it's not near anywhere and there isn't much to do.
It also doesn't have much of a beach.


 

