Let's move to Abingdon, Oxfordshire: 'Oxford's full, so why not try
here?'

It might lack medieval colleges and posh drinking societies, but it
has a spire

Abingdon, Oxfordshire

Abingdon, Oxfordshire: 'It has its own ridiculous/picturesque
tradition: bun throwing.'


What's going for it? 
There's no point moving to Oxford. It's full. Full, full, full. Not a
square inch left. If you want that spire schtick in your life, you're
going to have to scour its hinterland these days. Abingdon, for
instance, might lack medieval colleges, posh drinking societies and
legions of tourists, but it does have a spire, rowers on the Thames
and perhaps enough honey-butter-coloured stone buildings to convince
you that you live a few miles to the north. The posh Abingdon school
could, on a foggy day, double for the little-known St Nobb's College.
The town even has its own ridiculous/picturesque tradition: bun
throwing. Don't ask.


The case against 
The curse of Fat Face: all a bit chinos and posh-chains in the
centre. Ditch the blandness, Abingdon. Commuting to Oxford, just a
few miles away, is not without its challenges.


Well connected? 
Annoyingly trainless; the nearest station is two miles away in Radley
- hourly slow trains to Oxford and Didcot (11 minutes), and Reading
(44); the better connected Oxford and Didcot are seven or eight miles
away. Driving: the A34 gets you to the M40 in 30 minutes, the M4 in
45; Oxford is near, but traffic can be bad.


Schools 
Primaries: Long Furlong, Dunmore, St Nicolas CofE, Carswell
Community, Caldecott and Thameside are all "good", says Ofsted, with
Rush Common and Thomas Reade "outstanding". Secondaries: John Mason
and Larkmead are both "good". Lots of independents.


Hang out at 
The Nag's Head, perched on an island on the Thames, provides welcome
relief from all the chains.


Where to buy 
Abingdon has one of those lovely historic centres containing an
encyclopedia of architectural styles. Hunt for town houses and
cottages on East St Helen Street, Lombard Street, and, to a lesser
extent, Bath Street. North of the centre is plummest for Victorian
semis and so on; start around Park Crescent, Park Road, Spring Road
and the Albert Park conservation area. Or off and between Oxford Road
and Radley Road, such as Norman Avenue. Large detacheds and town
houses, £550,000-£1.6m. Detacheds, £320,000-£550,000. Semis,
£250,000-£600,000. Terraces and cottages, £245,000-£400,000. Flats,
£170,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £675-£900pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £1,000-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Period terrace close to the centre. £350,000 with hodsons.co.uk.


From the streets

Helen Mugnaioni 
"Patisserie Pascal, French bakery - best bread ever. Not to mention
delicious breakfast goodies and cakes. Absolutely brilliant."

Mary Buxton 
"Lots of opportunities for sports, music and church-centred
activities, all with a truly cosmopolitan mix of people. Best hidden
secret is the spiritual centre, St Ethelwold's House."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.

Let's move to Lynton and Lynmouth, north Devon: stout legs required


 

