Let's move to Great Yarmouth: 'See past the usual British seaside
miseries to the treats hidden behind'

The worst wax museum in the world has, alas, closed

Great Yarmouth beach

Great Yarmouth: 'Its architecture speaks of more prosperous times.'


What's going for it? 
When the rain is coming down and the easterlies are whipping it into
a pressure hose pointed straight at you, Great Yarmouth can be bleak.
This is not a place for flipping property or opening cupcake-knitting
salons. No, you come to Great Yarmouth because you can see past the
usual British seaside miseries to the treats hidden behind. The
Pleasure Beach, with its 1932 wooden scenic railway, perhaps. The
worst wax museum in the world has, alas, closed, but you can still
find one of Britain's last remaining end-of-the-pier theatres.
Yarmouth's architecture speaks of more prosperous times, before the
herring industry shrivelled, Luftwaffe bombs fell and holidaymakers
left for Benidorm: grand patches of Georgiana abutting ancient
merchants' houses around South Quay and the Minster - Great Yarmouth
has a minster. Who knew? Fabulous art nouveau in Fastolff House,
Victorian arcades, medieval town walls. Find your pleasures where you
can.


The case against 
Jobs are not aplenty. Too much of its charm is in fragments, sliced
up by dual carriageways and empty lots. I fear for its position
between the sea, the river and the Broads.


Well connected? 
Trains: end of the line to Norwich (half hourly, 35 minutes).
Driving: 40 minutes to Norwich, 20 to Lowestoft or Beccles.


Schools 
Primaries: North Denes, Northgate Infants, St Nicholas Priory C of E,
Great Yarmouth Primary Academy, St Mary & St Peter Catholic,
Hillside, Homefield C of E among the "good", Ofsted says.
Secondaries: Great Yarmouth College is "good" and Ormiston Venture
Academy "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
Seafood Restaurant, holding the fort for food since 1979. Great work,
chaps.


Where to buy 
Homes are cheap. They are rather nice, too. Great Yarmouth's old
town, between the river Yare and the sea, is large, but in fragments,
of which South Quay and around the Minster are the biggest. You'll
find half-timbered cottages, 18th-century town houses, Dutch gables.
Much is in need of TLC, and abuts empty lots or swaths of postwar
reconstruction. Seasidey houses and villas in the new town north
along the coast. Large detacheds and town houses, £250,000-£650,000.
Detacheds, £160,000-£250,000. Semis, £130,000-£280,000. Terraces and
cottages, £60,000-£160,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £400-£500pcm;
three-bed house, £500-£800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
No shortage. Three-bed listed Georgian town house by the Minster,
£189,950, with howards.co.uk.


From the streets

Paul Davies 
"Highlights include the Time And Tide Museum, Nelson Museum and the
longest stretch of medieval town wall (with many towers) in the
country. Plus Edwardian entertainment buildings, a thriving arts
centre in a Georgian chapel and one of the largest market places."


Live in Great Yarmouth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 29 March.


Comments

Let's not, really!

Not a mention of the Rows.

 

