Let's move to Alston, Cumbria

One of England's highest market towns, it has stone cottages, hardy
locals and a shop for anything you could possibly need.

Photograph of Alston

Alston, Cumbria: Not exactly in the thick of things.


What's going for it? 
Should we be out on our sea level rise predictions, I reckon Alston
would be OK. London might become Atlantis, but high on top of the
Pennines, Alston, one of the loftiest towns in the country, would
surely survive as an un-desert island. They're a resourceful,
independent lot here. They've had to be. Farming has become tougher,
sou'westerlies damper. All alone up in the gods, wall-to-wall in
gruff, grey stone, Alston knows all about self-sufficiency. They've
shops for everything: knick-knacks, spelt flour, fabulous Cumberland
sausages, all manner of scented candles. And if they haven't got it,
they know a man who has. Alston pioneered cybermoor.org to bring
t'internet into homes. There's just one thing they lack: women. A group
of lonely lads set up the Alston Moor Regeneration Society a decade
ago to attract ladies up the hill, which, if all went well, should
mean the pitter-patter of 10-year-old feet on its cobbles.


The case against 
Not exactly in the thick of things. Goodness, can it rain. Weather
can be severe in winter. Services, from buses to banks, threatened.


Well connected? 
Trains: the nearest is in the valley, from Langwathby or Lazonby to
Carlisle (25 mins, every 2 hours), faster from Penrith (15 mins,
hourly), or hourly from Haltwhistle to Carlisle (40 mins) or
Newcastle (1 hour). Driving: a car is essential  an hour to Carlisle,
40 mins to Hexham or Penrith, 30 mins to Haltwhistle. Buses to
Carlisle, Haltwhistle and Hexham.


Schools 
Primaries: many, including Alston, are "good", says Ofsted, with
Stanhope Barrington, St John's Chapel and Wearhead "outstanding".
Secondaries: Samuel Kings in Alston "requires improvement"; Queen
Elizabeth Grammar in Penrith is "outstanding".


Hang out at 
I hung out mostly at the Cumbrian Pantry. Alston has its decent pubs,
I was talking about the Blacksmiths Arms in Talkin for weeks.


Where to buy 
Alston is a pretty, hardy small town  not much more than a village 
with steep streets of stone, or whitewashed cottages and terraces.
Allendale, Nenthead and Cowshill follow suit on a smaller scale.
Fascinating properties in the wilds  medieval rectories to stone
farmhouses with land. Detacheds and town houses, 200,000-900,000.
Semis, 100,000-500,000. Terraces and cottages, 80,000-275,000.
Rentals: one-bed, 325-480pcm; three-bed, 450-750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
In Teesdale, a stone, one-bed cottage needs renovation, but is only
69,000 with addisons-surveyors.co.uk.


From the streets

Pauline Porteus 
"It is a fantastic place to live, an hour from Newcastle but with a
remote feel."

Gilly Williams 
"The Angel, a 1611 pub, has roaring fires and fish caught locally by
the landlord. It's a bit isolated, but that's what most of us love."

Lionel Playford 
"The Pennine Way, following the Tyne between Garrigill and Alston, is
a gem."


Live in Alston? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 1 March.


Comments

It's a nice place, though small (which can be good or bad), but it is
a long way from anywhere, and is high in the hills, so the winter
It's fab in the summer, but I bet it's hard work in the winter. As the
article says, if you like remoteness, its great, but I guess it's not
for everyone.

It's the centre of Britain! The middle of everywhere!! And a
fantastic place to live

What might surprise you is that quite often in winter, it's murky
with mist/fog in Penrith, Carlisle, Brampton and Hexham - while we're
basking in sunshine (frosty sunshine, to be sure, but sunshine) or
gazing in awe at the starriest skies you'll see anywhere in England.
And although you're right that winter weather can be severe, the huge
plus side of that is that contributes to a real sense of community.
Not for everyone, for sure, but then where is? I lived in two
different cities for a year each and have never been so lonely and
unhappy.

I've lived in Alston on and off for the last 40-ish years. And I
absolutely love it. The feeling of community is amazing, where
everyone knows everyone else. You can buy most essential things in
the town, visit coffee shops and pubs. I wouldn't live anywhere else!

Fed up with the city? High mortgages and on the hamster wheel. Come
and move to Alston Moor. You surely won't regret it for the quality
of life!!

 

