Let's move to Hotwells, Bristol - 'It's enchanting'

The old Bristol of radical politics, Rastafarian culture, 60s
concrete beside Tudor beams still lurks beneath the fresh paint

Hotwells, Bristol

Hotwells: 'Bristol has an energy I've never seen in the place before.'


What's going for it? 
The multicoloured terraces of Hotwells, as lurid as M&M's, cling to
the hillside like a hipster favela. They have become a symbol of the
city, reproduced on promotional material and Instagram accounts
celebrating nu-look Bristol. I hadn't been to the city for a couple
of years and, yes, maybe it's time to believe the hype. Bristol has
an energy I've never seen in the place before, alive with creativity,
waistbands bursting with its proliferating food and drink scene.
Mercifully, it has yet to fall in love with itself, the old Bristol
of radical politics, Rastafarian culture, rusting boats or 60s
concrete beside Tudor beams still lurking beneath the fresh paint. In
enchanting Hotwells, which in a 17th-century form of urban
regeneration was once a spa to rival Bath, you'll still find
community playgrounds, quiet, crumbling lanes tumbling down the
slope, proper boozers and snatches of weedy space
un-built-upon-by-property-developers. Long may it last (but,
miseryguts, I doubt it will).


The case against 
I hope you have good brakes/a good clutch and are deft at reversing
backwards up a hill and round corners; narrow lanes and ratruns.
Hotwell Road is busier than the M5.


Well connected? 
A half-hour walk from Bristol Temple Meads, 15 minutes from the
centre, five minutes from the Avon. Driving: only if you have to.
Bring stout thighs and titanium calves.


Schools 
Primaries: Hotwells is "outstanding", says Ofsted, with nearby St
George C of E and Christ Church C of E "good". Secondaries:
independents like Clifton College and Bristol Grammar dominate
locally, so it's a walk to the "outstanding" Bristol Cathedral Choir
School, the "outstanding" Cotham School or across the Avon to the
"good" Ashton Park.


Hang out at... 
The Lion: the perfect local. And explore Bristol's burgeoning food
scene, much celebrated by our own Marina O'Loughlin.


Where to buy 
Like a labyrinth of lanes uphill and down dale. Just get lost. And
end up at the Lion for a pint. A few detacheds and smaller town
houses, £600,000-£800,000. Terraces and cottages, £350,000-£600,000.
Flats, £200,000-£350,000. Rentals - not much: a one-bed flat, around
£800pcm; a three-bed house, £1,500-£1,600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
On the minus, it's on Hotwell Road. Five bedrooms for £645,000 with
chappellandmatthews.co.uk.


From the streets

Pete Dalby 
"Ten-minute ferry ride into the city; 15-minute walk to fabulous
countryside; colourful dockside pubs like the Nova Scotia; Brunel's
Bridge and a ship on the doorstep. "

Ann-Marie James 
"The army surplus-style store Marcruss Outdoor - everything you need
for serious camping trips. Pet hate: the ugly flyover."


Live in Hotwells? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 25 October.


 

