Let's move to Rye, East Sussex: 'You'd think its prettiness would be
its undoing'

Even the annual deluge of summer tourists fails to dent its
astonishing character

Cottages going down a hill in Rye, East Sussex

'Rye has been around the block and seen it all before.'


What's going for it? 
I have deeply etched childhood memories of Rye. We came here often,
Mum and Dad perhaps harbouring fantasies of moving to its medieval
I come here often, accompanied by much the same vain hopes. In the
intervening four decades, little has altered, bar the arrival of
boutique hotels, boutique cinemas and better coffee. Rye, after all,
has been around the block and seen it all before, even unruly,
egocentric demagogues striding across the globe. (This was once a
command centre against Napoleon's potential invasion.) You'd think
Rye's prettiness would be its undoing. But no. Even the annual deluge
of summer tourists fails to dent its astonishing character. This is a
town, though, best approached in winter, hunkered down, hatches
battened against the maritime gusts, with the sun low over Camber
Sands and a flaming log or two in the fireplace at the George.


The case against 
Read the Mapp & Lucia novels. Occasional tweeness. A few too many
gift shops. Preserved, but when a place looks this good…


Well connected? 
Trains: Hastings (18 mins), Ashford (22 mins), Eastbourne (44 mins)
and Brighton (1hr 25 mins); changing at Ashford, you can be at London
St Pancras in 1hr 23 mins. Driving: tricky; the A259 coast road is
twisty and busy; 30 mins to Hastings, or Ashford and the M20.


Schools 
Primaries: Rye Community and nearby St Michael's CofE are "good",
Ofsted says. Secondaries: Rye College is "good".


Hang out at... 
The delightful new cinema, the Kino, followed by a snifter at the
George or Ypres Castle. Lots of choice for dinner, from the Ambrette
to the Landgate to fish and chips.


Where to buy 
Anywhere you can. Caught between marshes and the Weald, Rye huddles
tightly round its hilltop. Everywhere is lovely, though the A259
circling the town can get cloggy, with consequences for the houses
lining it. There are few opportunities for sprawling suburbans; a few
around Military Road or Playden. Rye Harbour is worth a look, too.
Large detacheds and town houses, £500,000-£1.4m. Detacheds and
smaller town houses, £350,000-£500,000. Semis, £240,000-£450,000.
Terraces and cottages, £200,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £700pcm; a three-bedroom house, £1,100pcm.


Bargain of the week 
I'll race you for this one. Listed, two-bedroom terrace house,
needing modernisation, £265,000 with Phillips & Stubbs,
phillipsandstubbs.co.uk.


From the streets

Phil Law 
"A welcoming haven for writers and creatives, but it's impossible to
buy anything useful as it's all coffee shops and chintz."

Timothy Gorman 
"The Standard Inn, renovated a couple of years ago: excellent food,
log fires, local beers, lovely staff, beautiful accommodation."

Neil Murphy 
"Lots of second-homers and tourists."


Do you live in Rye? Join the debate below.


Live in Streatham, south London? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 6
December.


 

