Let's move to Moretonhampstead and east Dartmoor, Devon

Wild ghost-dogs, wildnerness aplenty and a great selection of
gastropubs  whats not to love?

Photograph of Moretonhampstead

Moretonhampstead and east Dartmoor, Devon: Its not cheap.


What's going for it? 
The wild, blasted moors of the great granite dome of Dartmoor are fit
only for habitation by beasts - the hound of the Baskervilles - or the
hardiest of humans: King Lear, Bear Grylls, Lady Colin Campbell and
The rest of us, though, have always been attracted to a little bit of
rough, so long as its tempered by a pretty thatched roof, a
wood-burning stove and gastronomic options within staggering
distance. In which case, voil: the foothills of Dartmoor are for you.
Theres wildness aplenty if you fancy roaming the moors in a force
nine, white-water kayaking or whatever. But after a hard night
hunting for dastardly hounds, you can return to country lanes,
whitewashed narrow-alleyed Georgian towns, and a delicious selection
of gastropubs.


The case against 
It's not cheap. Wild ghost-dogs roam the moors at night.


Well connected? 
Trains: not too far to the main line at Exeter and Newton Abbot.
Driving: 30 mins to Exeter from Moretonhampstead, 15 mins to the A30,
20 to the A38, 40 to the seaside at Teignmouth. Buses: five or six
daily from Moretonhampstead via Dunsford to Exeter (50 mins), or from
Chagford to Exeter (1hr).


Schools 
Primaries: South Tawton (South Zeal), Chagford CofE,
Moretonhampstead, Cheriton Bishop Community, Dunsford Community,
Christow Community, Doddiscombsleigh Community, Hennock Community,
Bovey Tracey, Ilsington CofE, Chudleigh Knighton CofE are all "good",
says Ofsted, with Widecombe-in-the-Moor and Blackpool CofE
outstanding. Secondaries: a schlep, alas, to "good" Teign School
(Kingsteignton), Coombeshead Academy (Newton Abbot), Newton Abbot
College, West Exe School (Exeter) or the "outstanding" Okehampton
College.


Hang out at 
Lots to choose from, from super-posh Gidleigh Park near Chagford, to
local bistros like 22 Mill Street in Chagford, and cosy pubs like The
Old Inn, Drewsteignton.


Where to buy 
Take your pick of pretty towns, villages and hamlets. Think stone
farmhouses, thatch, Devon longhouses. Not cheap, mind. Large
detacheds and town houses, 400,000-1.6m. Detacheds, 250,000-400,000.
Semis, 170,000-320,000. Terraces and cottages, 130,000-280,000.
Rentals: one-bedroom flat, 400-575pcm; three-bedroom house,
850-1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Beautiful thatched six-bed 17th century former post office and
schoolhouse in Dunchideock; needs modernisation. 395,000, with
struttandparker.com.


From the streets

Oliver Baker 
"Best pub in the area is the Nobody Inn at Doddiscombsleigh; proper
local with great whiskies. Dunchideock, Drewsteignton and Higher and
Lower Ashton are the loveliest villages. And the whole area is within
an easy commute to Exeter  but you need a car."


Live in Moretonhampstead or east Dartmoor? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 March.


Comments

You do realise many people live on the higher parts of the Moor? The
lower reaches of the Moor give you cosy security whilst still giving
you the ability to say "I live on Dartmoor!". I've seen people move
to places higher up (such as Princetown, Postbridge etc) on the Moors
without a clue as to what life can be like up there - they go about
it as if it were some "adventurous fad". Predictably many of these
people don't stay long and hastily abandon their twee moorland
adventure (probably due to the harsh weather, short summers,
isolation, poor amenities and lack of gastro pubs. For instance
Princetown may be interesting but its amenities are exceptionally
crap).

So if you're a down-from-London type who's used to their creature
comforts, with everything you could possibly need being a
stones-throw away down the next street, then stick to the lower
reaches. Personally I would never live on Dartmoor's highest reaches
again - unless I could get myself one if the larger and more isolated
dwellings. Basically if I were rich.

It is very difficult for big-city-dwellers to understand that being
an extra 300m above sea-level can make such a difference to

a) average temperatures THROUGHOUT the year
b) the exposure to south-westerly gales
c) how much more rain you get.

But in this day and age of the Internet, the Averages Maps on the Met
Office's provided climate site tries to eliminate that ignorance.

Indeed, the upper Moor has a micro climate which is rather different
to the rest of Devon. The lower reaches of the Moor are nicely
sheltered, with forests and valley's and the like. I do love the
lower Moor as I call it - Lydford Gorge is hard to beat when it comes
to English countryside beauty.

And yes, anyone considering moving up there really needs to ask
themselves some serious questions after studying in great detail just
what it's like. Every aspect of it. Most of all the weather!

"whats not to love?"
Average annual rainfall 1384.6mm. London 557.4mm
Days of rainfall 151 p.a. London 109 p.a.
Met Office figures 1981 - 2010

It is wet there, they call it the sunny south west but every time I 
have been there it has rained a lot!

Ladies and gentlemen, we have a soft Southerner in our midst ;)

 

