Let's move to Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire: It's used to lofty
visitors

It's nice, but is it £1m nice?

Princes Risborough

Princes Risborough: Chequers is just outside town.


What's going for it? 
The Black Prince, eldest son of Edward III, ran the manor in the 14th
century, and since then Risborough's got quite used to lofty visitors.
Xi Jinping popped in for a pint last year, and all manner of
dignitaries pass through at some point in their lives, thanks to
Chequers being just outside town. As a result, Princes Risborough has
become something of a museum exhibit, with which prime ministers can
demonstrate What Britain Is Like to celebrities whose only exposure
to Blighty has hitherto been watching Harry Potter in their private
cinemas. I'm not sure how representative a town can be when properties
routinely hug £1m, but on the surface Princes Risborough does the job.
It supplies all the signifiers of a certain kind of modest
Englishness (cricket on the green, warm beer in pubs, half-timber,
bit of thatch, gentle wooded hills) a short hop from the capital
(and, for those slebs, the private jet at Northolt airfield).


The case against 
It's not all that. I mean it's nice, but is it £1m nice? Nimbys (even
newly arrived nimbys) might moan about the 2,500 new homes and bypass
planned for the town.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly to Aylesbury (18 mins), Bicester (19 mins) and Banbury
(40 mins); twice hourly to High Wycombe (10 mins), Beaconsfield
(16/18 mins) and London Marylebone (45/50 mins). Driving: 20 mins to
Aylesbury, High Wycombe and the M40, half an hour to the M25, an hour
to Oxford.


Schools 
Primaries: Monks Risborough C of E and Longwick C of E are both "good",
says Ofsted, with nearby Great Kimble C of E "outstanding".
Secondaries: Princes Risborough "requires improvement"; Misbourne in
Great Missenden is "good" but oversubscribed.


Hang out at 
The Three Horseshoes in nearby Radnage to escape the paps.


Where to buy 
Theres not exactly a dodgy end. The old heart near the church has
pleasant cottages, but the prime spots are Monks Risborough, Askett
and Whiteleaf. Large detacheds and town houses, 750,000-1.5m.
Detacheds, 450,000-750,000. Semis, 320,000-550,000. Terraces and
cottages, 300,000-500,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, 750pcm; a
three-bedroom house, 1,200-1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A three-bed semi a stroll from Monks Risborough station and a mile
from Princes Risborough town centre, for 395,000.


From the streets

Ros Brear 
"A few too many charity shops, not much for young people to do. But
the fabulous Chiltern hills surround the town, there are great walks
and theres a fab pub, the Pink & Lily."

Susie Kearley 
"I love the National Trust beauty spot at Pulpit Hill. My pet hate is
nearly getting run over on the zebra crossing on the main road."


Live in Princes Risborough? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 12 July.

 

