Let's move to Saltaire: Titus Salt's grand and immaculate West
Yorkshire haven

A stunning world heritage site, with swanky flats in mills and
Italianate terraces

Saltaire

Saltaire: 'It's listed to the hilt.'


What's going for it? 
A confession: I have a dark side. Most days, I love the hurly
hullabaloo of life. Other days, though, I get all prim. I neaten
skew-whiff coasters on the coffee table. I get enraged at
litter-droppers. There's a dictator lurking inside me. Someone like
Titus Salt. Titus had opinions about neatness. He ruled over the
model village he built for his workers like a benevolent Gradgrind,
with one hand giving them the luxuries of backyards, loos and
bathhouses (pimp my slum!), the other building tidy, grid-iron
avenues in one, and only one, style of architecture, banning washing
lines and enforcing a two-baths-a-week rule on his employees. My kind
of man. I'm sure he had opinions about coasters, too. The result?
More profit in his textile mill. More beauty in his streets. Slightly
less smelly people.


The case against 
The rest of the world beyond: messy. Listed to the hilt and a world
heritage site, so curb your grand designs, lest you offend Salt's.


Well connected? 
Trains: half-hourly to Leeds (17 minutes) and Bradford Forster Square
(12-14 minutes), four an hour the other way to Keighley (10 minutes)
and Skipton (30). Driving: 15 minutes to downtown Bradford, 40 to
Leeds and the M1, a half-hour drive to Skipton, a bit longer to get
up into the Dales.


Schools 
Primaries: Saltaire, St Walburga's Catholic, Wycliffe CofE, and
nearby Glenaire are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Titus Salt
School is "good".


Hang out at... 
I have a soft spot for Salt's Diner in Salt's Mill, surrounded by
David Hockneys. The Cap & Collar for "proper" beer.


Where to buy 
The village is an elegant affair of stone, Italianate terraces and
town houses, amid civic monuments built by architects Henry Lockwood
The grid has modest terraces and grander affairs around Titus Street
(all the streets are named after Salt, his family and, ahem,
"favourite" maids). Swanky flats in the mills. Posh suburbans outside
the Unesco site, across the Bingley Road around Nab Lane, Nab Wood
and Moorhead Lane. Detacheds and town houses, £400,000-£700,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £200,000-£400,000. Semis,
£130,000-£375,000. Terraces and cottages, £125,000-£315,000. Flats,
£75,000-£230,000. Rentals: a one-bed, £400-£625pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bedroom listed stone semi in the village proper, by the Aire
and lovely Roberts Park, needs modernising, £230,000 jiestates.co.uk.


From the streets

Sophie Marfell 
"The Yorkshire Dales in its rugged beauty, yet 15 minutes by train to
vibrant Leeds."

Marjorie Ashdown 
"A World Heritage village where good houses can be bought for
peanuts!"

Michael Hallewell 
"The Jolly Bean roastery roasts coffee to order and delivers it
through your letterbox."


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.

 

