Let's move to Abbey Wood, south-east London

Its being reimagined. Crossrail is coming. It's boomtime. Ish

Photograph of Abbey Wood

Abbey Wood: Very suburban.


What's going for it? 
That's the thing about urban fortunes: you never know what's round the
corner. One minute you're living in Notting Hill, slum, the next
minute Notting Hill, Notting Hill. Abbey Wood's my dad's patch. He left
in the 1960s when the docks were on the slide, and thought he'd try
his luck in a starter home past the green belt. As you did back then.
Maybe Dad should have stayed. Fifty years later, Abbey Wood is being
reimagined. Crossrail is coming. This time in three years, you'll be
able to hit the West End in 25 minutes, Heathrow in 51. It's boom time
in Abbey Wood. Ish. There's already been a minor scandal in a property
development trying to flog luxury flats to foreign investors, as if
Abbey Wood were Belgravia. A couple of hundred homes are coming, a
new square, a hotel and - cue drum roll - a Sainsbury's. But for now,
Abbey Wood remains one of the few places in the capital where you can
buy a three- or four-bedroom house, yes house, for £300,000, yes
£300,000. For now.


The case against 
Very suburban. It's not the most beautiful of spots. Suffers, in the
eyes of estate agents, from proximity to Belmarsh Prison. Not the
greatest diversity in property.


Well connected? 
Trains: not bad  seven or so an hour to Cannon Street, London Bridge
or Charing Cross (30-37 mins), or the other way twice hourly to
Gravesend (19 mins) and Rochester (42 mins). Driving: 50 minutes to
central London, 20 mins to the M25 and the Dartford Crossing.


Schools 
Good. Primaries: Alexander McLeod, St Thomas A Becket Catholic,
Boxgrove, De Lucy, Gallions Mount, Willow Bank, St John Fisher
Catholic and Parkway are all "good", says Ofsted, with Bannockburn
"outstanding". Secondaries: St Pauls Academy, Plumstead Manor, Welling
and Bexley Business Academy are all "good".


Hang out at 
Thin on places. The cafe in the woods is pleasant. Head to Plumstead
High Street for tandooris and noodle bars.


Where to buy 
Much of the layout is thanks to the Royal Arsenal Co-operative
Society, which built the Bostall Estate from 1900. Cross Quarter
exemplifies Abbey Woods slick new look. Terraces, 200,000-450,000.
Flats: one bedroom, 150,000-350,000; two beds, 175,000-400,000; three
beds, 200,000-450,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, 850-1,100pcm; a
three-bed house, 1,200-1,600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Near the station, this three-bed terraced house needs refurbishment,
but at 290,000 it must be one of the cheapest in London, with
your-move.co.uk.


From the streets

Gladys Arlidge 
"I moved here after being priced out of everywhere else in London. The
area could do with decent cafes, but I'm sure these will come."

Emma Taylor 
"We love the ancient woodland of Lesnes Abbey Wood. Theres a brilliant
sense of community, with Crossrail making central London even closer
when it opens in 2018."


Live in Abbey Wood? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16 February.


Comments

Blimey, got a fair bit wrong here. The Sainsbury's opened six months
ago. It's 23 minutes to London Bridge not 30 mins plus, and there's 8
trains an hour off peak and not 7. When London bridge rebuild is
finished it goes back up to 10 in the peaks.

Claiming proximity to Belmarsh is weird. Belmarsh is closer to the
expensive Royal Arsenal development in Woolwich - it's miles from
Abbey Wood and separated by major roads. And the picture shows
Thamesmead's tower blocks which are pretty much all now to be
demolished.

You're right it badly needs more shops and cafes.

Blimey, got a fair bit wrong here.

You're not kidding; but in fairness most of SE London is a foreign
country to Guardian writers. I'm not so sure about the schools
either.

Looks like an old article.

Crossrail's biggest advantage will be Canary Wharf in 10 minutes and
the City in less than 20 - though it's currently less than 30 minutes
to Cannon Street anyway. Not really the West end in 25 minutes (good
as that is) as the old Southeastern line already got there in about
30 minutes (not while current engineering work going on admittedly
but that ends in a couple of years).

I'd say one big upside is the huge woods and park with £6m lottery
money now being spent on a new visitors centre and gardens.

Abbey Wood itself isn't too ugly unless looking at the station area.
It's being rebuilt though. Thamesmead really is and people often
confuse the two, as this article seems to have done. The early 20th
century estate is typical London terraces or semi detached really. 5
miles west and they'd be a million quid - and no closer to major
Abbey Wood will be in 2018.

 

