Let's move to Lambeth, London: follow Damien Hirst

It has enough estates to scare off Foxtons and too few period details
to attract hardcore gentifiers

Lambeth, south London

Lambeth: 'The area lacks a focus.'


What's going for it? 
It's happened. Fancy-pantsy coffee cups lie discarded in the gutter.
The word "artisan" has been spotted. It didn't take long. Damien
Hirst's Newport Street Gallery opened not a year ago, and already
Lambeth has transformed. What was one of those quiet pockets strewn
across Zone 1 south of the river, has been discovered. Don't say I
didn't warn you. Let's move to... last visited a decade ago, when
Hirst's plans were floated and one-bed flats started at £160,000. You
need twice that today. I suspect, though, that Lambeth will remain
much as it is. The Big Money is next door, busy turning Vauxhall and
Elephant and Castle into Hong Kong. Lambeth has enough estates to
scare off Foxtons and, thanks to slum clearance and the Luftwaffe,
too few period details to attract hardcore gentrifiers. Its change
will be subtler, council flat by council flat, until, one day, the
land of cockneys and the Lambeth Walk (oi) will exist only in history
books and West End musicals.


The case against 
The slow creep of gentrification. Lambeth Walk, the old high street,
is a shadow of its illustrious past, so the area lacks a focus.


Well connected? 
You're in Zone 1 - you can walk. The Thames is five minutes away.
Trains: Lambeth North is on the Bakerloo line (closed until spring).


Schools Good. 
Primaries: Walnut Tree Walk, Charlotte Sharman, Henry Fawcett, St
Anne's Catholic and St Mark's CofE are all "good", says Ofsted, with
Vauxhall and Archbishop Sumner CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: Oasis
Academy and Lilian Baylis are both "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
Gentrifier? Newport Street Gallery's Pharmacy 2. Gentrifier with a
conscience? The Ragged Canteen. Everybody else: the Kennington
Tandoori and Gandhi's for politician-spotting.


Where to buy 
Avoid the river, unless you are a tech millionaire from Shenzhen, in
which case look at luxury towers like the Corniche. A street behind,
Lambeth assumes its typical character: fragments of pre-second world
war terraces and Georgian town houses (Walcot Square, Denny Street),
splattered with council estates, lock-ups and viaducts. Prices lurch
between millions and "bargain" hundred-thousands. Town houses,
£1m-£2m. Terraces and cottages, £900,000-£1.2m. Flats: three beds,
£600,000-£6m; two beds, £450,000-£3m; one bed, £340,000-£1.2m.
Rentals: one-bed flat, £1,300-£2,000pcm; three-bed home,
£1,800-£7,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
This passes for a bargain in London. A listed four-bed period
terraced house on Walcot Square; needs modernising. £1.195m, with
winkworth.co.uk. Tom Dyckhoff


From the streets

Christopher Smith 
"Brockwell Park Community Greenhouses grows food and flowers."

Charlotte House 
"Kids' stuff is ace: parks like Myatt's Fields, Archbishops and
Kennington are beautiful and have excellent free activities."

Ruby Lescott 
"The Kennington Coffee Shop serves good coffee, homemade bread and
soup."


Live in Lambeth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 27 September.


 

