Let's move to Lowestoft, Suffolk: it's faded - but what a beach

This old seaside town is not going to do a Margate any time soon

Lowestoft: 'Blue Flagged strands with sand as soft as talc.'

Lowestoft: 'Blue Flagged strands with sand as soft as talc.'


What's going for it? 
I'm not sure all the
cupcake-yarn-bombing-vintage-craft-beer-artisan-cream-horn-emporia in
the country could entirely resuscitate Lowestoft. This old seaside
town is not going to do a Margate any time soon. The shiny bollards
and benches installed, I'd guess, sometime during the reign of Tony
Blair have failed to spark any "urban renaissance"... ah, remember
that? The dedicated spotter of regeneration schemes can I-Spy decades
of attempts to put the fizz back in Lowestoft, decimated by the
double whammy decline of its port and its seaside punters. The middle
classes, who dominate the Suffolk coast to the south, have here fled
inland to the comfort of Oulton Broad. This is strange. Because
Lowestoft, for all its For Sale signs, shares the same bone
structure: that easterly bleakness, municipal gardens, beach huts,
dunes, Blue Flagged strands with sand as soft as talc, a pretty,
pantiled high street the image of anything in Aldeburgh. Their loss.


The case against 

Extensively shabby, drab and deprived, with little cheer on the
horizon. Schools are a mixed bag. Getting from here to anywhere else
(even Great Yarmouth) can be a trial. Traffic can clog in the centre
when the bridges are raised.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly to Norwich (45-50 mins) or south on the slow line to
Ipswich (90 mins). Driving: 50 mins to Norwich.


Schools 
Primaries: Poplars Community, Northfield St Nicholas, Roman Hill, St
Mary's RC are "good", Ofsted says, with Oulton Broad and Carlton
Colville "outstanding". Secondaries: Pakefield is "good".


Hang out at... 
I've a soft spot for Woodbine Cafe on Suffolk Road, for unironic
nostalgia, though I hear good things about the Jolly Sailors.


Where to buy 
Start in the faded old town, around the High Street, and the small
Victorian terraces to the west. For period homes, look south to
London Road South, Kirkley "Village" and the Victorian seafront
around Marine Parade and Kirkley Cliff Road, or north to Gunton Cliff
and Yarmouth Road. It's poshest in Oulton and Oulton Broad, south
past Cotmer Road to Carlton Colville and Pakefield. Large detacheds
and town houses, £300,000-£800,000. Detacheds and smaller town
houses, £150,000-£300,000. Semis, £130,000-£325,000. Terraces, flats
and cottages, £70,000-£200,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £370-£550pcm;
three-bed house, £500-£700pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Six-bed, spacious Victorian terrace in south Lowestoft, needs
modernisation, £134,995, with howards.co.uk.


From the streets

Susan Burrett 
"A great location with a fantastic sandy beach and easy access to the
Broads. Good value. The town centre is a bit lacking; I'd head to
Southwold, 15 minutes away, for a nice dinner."

Ian Hall 
"Lovely, relaxing pace of life. Check out the Wherry hotel for sunset
drinks overlooking the Broads."


Live in Lowestoft? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23 August.


 

