Let's move to Slaithwaite and the Colne Valley, West YorkshireWith food co-ops and micro breweries, the northern powerhouse is
already here

SlaithwaiteSlaithwaite, West Yorkshire.What's going for it?
I know, beards are over, austerity nostalgia is over, anything with
the words artisan/craft/locally sourced is O.V.E.R. But let's not
throw the baby out with the hipster bath water (sorry, terrible mixed
metaphors). Stripped of fashion, there can be a radical kernel behind
that turn to the handmade that accompanied the Great Recession. Take
The Handmade Bakery, established in Slaithwaite (pronounced Sla-wit)
in 2009: a not-for-profit, community-supported artisan bakery. Yes:
artisan! The aim of this cooperative is to make this basic human
foodstuff affordably and ethically, a spirit that sums up that
unpretentious strand of gentle revolution that has lurked in cracks in
the Pennines like this one since the industrial revolution. The Colne
valley hums with cooperative grocers, chutzpah and community
enterprises. The northern powerhouse is already here. Plus Simon
Armitage is from down the road.

The case against Wet and glowering.Well connected? 
Trains: half-hourly to Huddersfield (10 mins) and Manchester Victoria
(45 mins). Driving: an hour to Manchester, 20 mins to Huddersfield, 10
to the M62, 40 to Leeds. There are thoughts to tszuj up the M62, and
local rail links, as part of the northern powerhouse plans.

Schools 
Primaries: many, including Slaithwaite C of E, Linthwaite Clough,
Linthwaite Ardron C of E and Helme C of E are all "good", says Ofsted,
with Meltham Moor outstanding. Secondaries: Colne Valley High was
inadequate in 2012, but reopened in 2014; Moor End Academy is
"outstanding".

Hang out at
Lots to choose from, including some smashing pubs. But it has to be
the cafe at The Handmade Bakery.Where to buy 
Think stony old farmhouses between town and moor, piggeries and barn
conversions with soaring views of the Pennines; or damp (in a good
way), mossy stone Victorian terraces (most affordable); or the
occasional old mill conversion. There is 20th-century stuff, too, but
its more humdrum. Large detacheds and town houses, 300,000-1.2m.
Detacheds, 180,000-300,000. Semis, 120,000-280,000. Terraces and
cottages, 85,000-200,000. Flats, 80,000-200,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom home, 400pcm; three-bed, 550-800pcm.

Bargain of the week 
A one-bedroom cottage with a wee courtyard garden, in the centre of
Slaithwaite, 59,950 with cornerstoneea.co.uk.

From the streetsMike Newman "A real community, with great cafes like Vanilla Bean, Cookhouse and
Lock 22, pub/restaurants like the Commercial and Nobles, with beers
often from the local Empire brewery."Margaret Tennant 
"Excellent transport links, the Huddersfield Narrow Canal runs through
the village and you can walk into gorgeous countryside."

Live in Slaithwaite and the Colne Valley, West Yorkshire? Join the debate
below.Do you live in Moretonhampstead and east Dartmoor, Devon? Do
you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9 February.CommentsLooks an ace spot for Londoners to be buy an occasional weekend bolt hole:
just make sure the Range Rover is parked somewhere handy for a quick
getaway if it looks like flooding. :)No thank you. We need to keep our houses for ordinary young people
locally to buy. It really does rain a lot here, and the people talk
funny...

Slap bang on the rail route of the marvellous Transpennine Ale Trail -
great fun on a saturday afternoon!!

I've just moved here, and I did know about this but yup! That's one of
the negatives. Loving the rest of it though 
