Let's move to Plumstead, south-east London: it's magical

It's unaware that the rest of the capital is under siege from artisan
cronut cafes and House Price Chaos

Plumstead, south-east London: 'It's perfectly humdrum.'
Plumstead, south-east London: 'It's perfectly humdrum.'


What's going for it? 
The latest in our occasional series Ordinary (In A Good Way) Bits Of
London That Are Still Slightly Even Vaguely Affordable. Plumstead
defies the normal London rules, by which places on hills with commons
are universally populated by Hooray Henries. Not this one. Plumstead
is perfectly humdrum, its racks of terraced houses and parades of
nail bars, launderettes and roofing suppliers high above London,
unaware that the rest of the capital is under siege from artisan
cronut cafes and House Price Chaos. Plumstead rises above such
The high street may be in need of investment, but the common is on
the up. There's a strong Nepalese and Sikh community here.
Plumstead's position, moated by the Thames on half its flank, has
turned it into a cul-de-sac where all sorts of flotsam and jetsam
accumulate, such as an ancient windmill that's turned into a pub, a
parade of houses by Berthold Lubetkin and the ancient trees of Oxleas
Wood.


The case against 
Deploy thighs of steel: the railway station is right at the bottom of
the hill. Not a vast variety of housing types.


Well connected? 
Trains: five or six trains an hour to London Bridge (26/27 mins) and
London Cannon Street (30 mins), via Greenwich (16 mins), two to four
to Dartford (20 mins). Crossrail will be coming to Woolwich and Abbey
Wood. Driving: you can be on the M25 in 25 mins or so.


Schools 
Good. Primaries: many rated "good", Ofsted says, with Bannockburn,
Christ Church C of E and Foxfield "outstanding". Secondaries:
Plumstead Manor, Shooters Hill Post-16 Campus, St Paul's Academy and
nearby Welling are all "good". Woolwich Poly for boys is
"outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The cafe at Oxleas Wood does a great fry-up.


Where to buy 
You won't want for Victorian and Edwardian terraces, mostly on the
small side. Plus a few 20s/30s swooping along rolling hills. Larger
homes around Eglinton Hill, Shrewsbury Lane and Occupation Lane. And
a good rack of Victorians up the hill from the station. Semis,
£400,000-£850,000. Terraces and cottages, £300,000-£600,000. Flats,
£165,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £850-£1,100pcm; a
three-bed house, £1,300-£1,600pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Five-bed Victorian terrace, right on the common, in need of some TLC.
£499,995, with Goodwin Ellis via rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Victoria Paige 
"My boyfriend and I have bought our first home; a three-storey
Victorian. I can't believe what you get for your money. So close to
London but feels like I'm in the countryside when wandering through
the common."

Clare Griffin 
"Close to Charlton Lido - amazing outdoor pool."


Live in Plumstead? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.


Comments

PLUMStead PANTry.

I'm 46 this year as well.

With my flatmates moving out of Elephant and Castle to this area I
was a little dubious at first. However, after reading this article I
now feel as though I should pack up and move that way as well!
Victoria Paige's comments give me the comfort I need.


 

