Let's move to Winchcombe, Gloucestershire

It's at the quieter end of the Cotswolds, far from the madding
Camerons and Clarksons

Winchcombe, Cotswolds

Winchcombe: It could host A-list soirees, but it chooses not to.


What's going for it? 
If I were a country casuals kind of guy, which I'm not, Winchcombe is
where I'd lay my Hunters, if I had any. It is at the quieter end of
the Cotswolds, far from the madding Camerons and Clarksons. It could
host A-list soirees, but it chooses not to. It could grace chocolate
boxes, but prefers not to. It seems quite happy keeping to itself,
under the radar, high on the escarpment overlooking the Severn Valley
with a nice pint of Hook Norton in its grasp. It has seen the high
life, and I don't mean when Liz Hurley got married at Sudeley Castle,
but rather when newly remarried (and pregnant) Catherine Parr moved
there after Henry VIII died. She survived only a year. Or when
Winchcombe was capital of the kingdom of Mercia some time in the
ancient era of Game of Thrones. You can still get a hint of a time
when the Cotswolds were remote, wild and rugged by walking up to
Belas Knap long barrow, made 5,000 years ago, before posh boys and
Chinese coach parties moved in and Barbours began roaming the Earth.


The case against 
Like much of the Cotswolds, it ain't cheap.


Well connected? 
Trains: only the heritage railway left. Driving: 20 minutes to
Cheltenham and its rail station, 25 to the M5. The 606 bus trawls
five or six times a day between Cheltenham, Winchcombe, Broadway and
Willersey.


Schools 
Primaries: Winchcombe Abbey CofE and Isbourne Valley are "good", Ofsted
says, with Gretton outstanding. Secondaries: Winchcombe and nearby
Cleeve School "good".


Hang out at 
Winchcombe hides lots of great places behind its modest facades, like
the Michelin-starred 5 North Street, the lovely bistro Wesley House
and the Cotswold dishy dreamboat pub, the Lion Inn.


Where to buy 
Long, rambling streets  Gloucester, North and Hailes  are lined with
all manner of period properties. More affordable postwar properties
in the gaps in between and in edgeland estates. Slightly leafier
stone houses, Victorians and modern on and off Gretton Road out of
town. Large detacheds and town houses, 600,000-2.5m. Detacheds,
280,000-600,000. Semis, 250,000-500,000. Terraces and cottages,
200,000-380,000. Rentals: a one-bed, 500-600pcm; a three-bed house,
750-1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Well, ish: a two-bedroom period stone cottage, needing updating,
yours for 300,000 with cookresidential.co.uk.


From the streets

Elaine Foster 
"We live on the High Street right in the centre of this friendly,
We haven't regretted the move for a minute. There is a real community
feel as well as a buzz from the visitors who come to enjoy the
history or walk in the glorious countryside."


Live in Winchcombe? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 April.


Comments

Perfectly pleasant little place, traffic noise might be an issue in
houses on the main drag - narrow and can be busy. Lots of good
walking in the hills around.

Oops... doesn't look like many Guardian readers live there... You're
not missing anything. Full of horsey-types driving 4x4s. Best thing
about it are the gargoyles on the church, including a weird grimacing
figure in a top hat.

Hate to be pedantic, but they are grotesques not gargoyles! I've
lived here for 28 years and I can honestly say that Winchcombe is an
incredible community, I wouldn't want to live anywhere else.

As there are so few Graunistas probably?

 

