Let's move to Dover, Kent: 'It's been overlooked for years'

It needs attention, despite the famous white cliffs and some
beautiful Regency terraces

Dover, Kent

Dover, Kent.


What's going for it? 
Britain's gatehouse, thanks to Brexit, may be about to resume the
role it has held for a millennium or two. The past few decades have
not been kind to Dover: bombed to smithereens in the second world
war, rebuilt - vigorously, if we're being generous - in the 1960s and
on its uppers since airports and the Channel tunnel snatched away its
historic role. Maybe the future will be kinder. The hefty chunks of
the past that have survived hint at a more prosperous incarnation:
the castle, of course, none sturdier in the country, and the
beautiful Regency terraces along the waterfront. Combined with its
dramatic geography, squished into a cleft where the North Downs
hammer into the sea, this should make for a spirited town, as
impressive as its famous white cliffs, our "glittering breastplate",
as Carol Ann Duffy called them. What it needs is attention, money and
a new confidence.


The case against 
An air of despondency from years of being overlooked. How will Dover
respond to Brexit? Customs strikes and 14-hour queues this year are a
worrying augury. The waterfront needs serious work. Will the St James
retail park, opening next year, liven things up?


Well connected? 
Very. Hourly trains to St Pancras (67 mins), hour/half-hourly to
Charing Cross (2 hrs) and Victoria (2 hrs); half-hourly to Canterbury
(25 mins); three an hour to Folkestone (14 mins) and Ashford (30
mins). Driving: 30 mins to Canterbury or Ashford, 20 to Folkestone
and the M20.


Schools 
Primaries: among many good, says Ofsted, White Cliffs and River are
"outstanding". Secondaries: selective; Dover Grammar for Boys, Duke
of York's Royal Military, and Dover Grammar for Girls "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The Allotment, the local saviour for the past few years, is under new
ownership.


Where to buy 
Castle Street hints at Dover's civilised past, as do the amazing
Regency town houses on much of the front. For suburbans, look to
Temple Ewell, River and Kearsney. Large detacheds and town houses,
£400,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£250,000-£400,000. Semis, £130,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages,
£120,000-£250,000. Flats, £70,000-£200,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £450-£550pcm; a three-bed house, £650-£850pcm.


Bargain of the week 
They're all bargains here. Take this vast Regency town house on East
Cliff, needing restoration, at £299,000, with Thomas & Partners.


From the streets

Diederik Smet 
"It's on the up, with lots of development. Wonderful green spaces
nearby, including cycle and walking routes. Gorgeous architecture, if
you look up."

Justine Wingate 
"Follies, a great new independent pizzeria, and Cullins Yard in the
marina for good food and live music."


Live in Dover? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13 December.


Comments

At this juncture, I would recommend Calais, if you can possibly swing
it. Or further into Europe.

Maybe they could turn the place into a retirement community for
feckless politicians, of whom the UK has a surplus at present. With
some sort of quarantine not permitting them to travel more than 5
miles beyond the city limits.


 

