Let's move to Northumberland: for soft sand and craggy castles

Not even dark skies can dim the delights of Amble, Alnmouth and
Warkworth

Warkworth Castle, Northumberland

Warkworth Castle, once home to the dukes of Northumberland.


What's going for it? 
If a beach this stunning were 400 miles south, it'd be smeared in
luxury apartment complexes, hooray Henrys and yachts and, thereby,
ruined. Those 400 miles and glowering skies keep the beasties away,
leaving the delights of Alnmouth, Amble and Warkworth for the rest of
us. Those delights include a colony of puffins on the beautifully
named Coquet Island; powdery sand on a beach straight outta Bermuda
via the North Sea, and not another soul to share it with; ancient
fragments from the age of the Venerable Bede; craggy castles lorded
over by the Percys of Northumberland; tight-knit towns of huddled
stone cottages and Norman churches; and, best of all, Spurellis
ice-cream parlour in Amble. (I'm partial to an ice-cream in the
driving rain - call me hardcore.)


The case against 
Could do with some economic zip.


Well connected? 
Trains: at least every hour or two from Alnmouth to Newcastle (30
minutes) and north to Edinburgh (65); every two or so hours to
Berwick (20 minutes). Driving: 10-20 minutes to Alnwick and the A1,
45 to Newcastle, an hour to Berwick and Northumberland national park.


Schools 
Primaries: Warkworth CofE, Broomhill, Amble, Amble Links and
Acklington CofE are all "good", Ofsted says, with Hipsburn and
Shilbottle outstanding. Secondaries: James Calvert Spence College
"requires improvement", but seems to be on the up; the Duchesss
Community High in nearby Alnwick is "good".


Hang out at 
The Old Boat House in Amble or the Quayside Cafe for chips.


Where to buy 
Alnmouth and Warkworth are the immediate go-tos; the former has
sturdy stone terraces and Victorian villas overlooking the river
estuary; the latter is my favourite for its pretty centre under the
castle. Think sturdy stone buildings built to withstand border raids,
barns, Edwardian villas. Amble is a working port, mostly Victorian,
with a gritty edge and a fine waterfront. Large detacheds and town
houses, 350,000-650,000. Detacheds, 150,000-350,000. Semis,
95,000-325,000. Terraces and cottages, 80,000-300,000. Flats,
100,000-300,000. Rentals: a three-bed home, 450-1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Period stone, three-bed terrace in Amble, in need of modernisation,
85,000, with rookmatthewssayer.co.uk.


From the streets

Fi Hirst 
"My favourite restaurant is the Old Boat House at Amble; it always has
fresh fish, simply cooked. Lots of new development going on: the
quayside, marina and new housing."

Tracey Priest 
"The harbour village development is one of the main reasons people are
moving to Amble, for the new apartments and shops."


Live in Amble, Alnmouth and Warkworth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 3 May.


Comments

Beautiful part of the world - the fish and chips in Amble was first
class, I recall. Nip up the coast to Craster for fantastic smoked
kippers!

You can buy them in the fish mongers in Amble high street.

Shame that the Harbour Village Development website cannot spell
idyllic.

 

