Let's move to Glasgow Southside

Squint and the broad avenues and tenements really could be Manhattan's
Lower East Side

Photograph of Glasgow Southside

Glasgow Southside: This is a great, punchy swath of the city.


What's going for it? 
I've heard a genuine Glaswegian refer to Southside, and they weren't an
estate agent. It does sound like those artificial areas concocted by
marketing agencies to Manhattanise a place  like NoLetUp, DoReMe, or
Nuneaton North Central. In fact, it refers to the area east of the
M77, south of the M74, and if you make it to Giffnock, turn around,
for there be garden gnomes. Southside is a more urban affair, dense
with 19th-century stone tenements, dive bars and snooker halls, and
spliced with edgy spots like Tramway Arts or Glad Cafe, elbowed out
for Pizza Express and Foxtons in duller cities more obsessed with
property prices. Anyway, Glasgow has no need for Americanisms. It's
already spiritually twinned with the US in so many ways, and
Southside is no exception. Squint and its broad avenues and tenements
might be the Lower East Side, and Hampden Park could house the Boston
Red Sox.


The case against 
Not much. This is a great, punchy swath of the city. Parts might be a
bit noisy and urban for some. If so, head for the gnomes.


Well connected? 
Trains: two main lines into Glasgow Central  from Shawlands every
half-hour (11 mins), or every 15 mins from Mount Florida (11 mins).
You won't want for buses.


Schools 
Primaries: Holy Cross, Glendale, St Convals, Langside, St Fillans, St
Mirins, Calderwood Lodge and Braidbar are mostly "very good", says
HMIE. Secondaries: Holyrood and Bellahouston are "very good".


Hang out at 
Plenty to choose from, like the elegant Eat Cafe and Fish People
Cafe, Clockwork Beer Co microbrewery, and the fantastic Glad Cafe.


Where to buy 
Far more affordable than the West End, with a less snooty feel.
Shawlands is the heart, with Kilmarnock Road its life and soul: it
attracts a younger crowd to its stone terraces and tenements. Leafier
corners like the villas around Newlands Park pull in families.
Pollokshields is posher, with avenues of villas between Pollok and
Maxwell parks, and stately town houses and tenements by Pollokshields
West station. Denser and cheaper are Govanhill and around Mount
Florida, Kings Park and Hampden Park. Detacheds, 300,000-800,000.
Semis, 275,000-450,000. Terraces and cottages, 200,000-300,000.
Flats, 50,000-350,000. Rentals: one-bed, 300-600pcm; three-bed house,
500-1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Spacious, four-bed duplex flat with a communal garden in a handsome
listed Victorian stone town house in Crosshill, 185,000 with Fultons.


From the streets

Lindsay Finnie 
"The best bakes in Glasgow can be found at bakery47. Its modest,
understated cool encapsulates the spirit of the southside."

Pamela Richmond 
"Catch, a great family fish restaurant, serves prosecco with the cod."

Anne McGoldrick 
"It's getting great bars and restaurants. The Salisbury and the Allison
Arms."


Live in Glasgow Southside? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23 February.


Comments

I used to live south of the southside mentioned here. In Giffnock.
Often wish I'd never left. But the east coast of Scotland is drier if
a lot less livelier.

It's nice but it's no Westend and is usually filled with people who
would like to be in the Westend not Shawlands which tbh is a poor
shadow of the Westend.

It's better than the Eastend though.

Giffnock is just grim (in an expensive way) suburban hell.

I'll leave that one out there and get my popcorn.

Sure as heck very pleased I am not in the West End.

We moved from the West End to the Southside a couple of years ago and
it's so much better here. Just over the road from us is Pollok
Country Park with its great pine woods, mountain bike trails, open
fields, stately home, prizewinning cattle and horses and
world-renowned Burrell Collection. Our 3-bed mid terrace with front
and back gardens on a quiet residential street with views over the
park to the hills beyond cost us less than a 1-bed flat in the West
End would have.

Shawlands is 15 minutes walk away and has everything we need
including the Waverley Tea Rooms which is great for families with
young children, as are the glasshouse in Queen's Park and the Hidden
Gardens at Tramway.

The Southside is definitely not a "poor shadow of the West End" - it
has its own culture and vibe, enriched by the immigrant communities
in east Pollokshields and Govanhill (where you can get the best
curries in Glasgow) and the very active community involvement in
institutions like the Govanhill Baths and the newly formed
Pollokshields Playhouse.

With the opening of the South West City Way we have the best cycle
infrastructure in Glasgow (although that's not saying much) and
Victoria Road is set to get a refurbishment with wider pavements and
segregated cycleways which will make it much more pleasant to browse
in the many locally owned shops.

The Shawlands Arcade is a horrible building though.

