Let's move to the Nadder valley, Wiltshire

If you're stuck on the A303, take a detour to explore this hidden
valley of thatched cottages, wide chalky downs and water meadows

Photograph of Nadder valley, Wiltshire

Nadder valley, Wiltshire: Off the beaten track.


What's going for it? 
God, the A303. Can't someone do something about it? Like the common
cold, the Middle East and George Osborne, the A303 is just one of
those problems that never goes away. On the plus side, one Friday
afternoon, while queueing around Winterbourne Stoke, with just the
prospect of roadworks past Wylye for comfort, a shortcut down the
Nadder valley popped into my brain. Now I don't advise anybody to go
through Teffont Magna at a tad over 30mph, because not only will you
be breaking the law, you will miss its rows of thatched cottages. And
the green water meadows of the Nadder will pass you by, along with
its clear waters, prized for their brown trout. The Nadder is one of
those spots tucked down B roads that's easily taken for granted. It's
only when you slow down and actually notice the reed beds, the
watermills, the chalky downs of Cranborne Chase, the villages in
buttery Chilmark stone, the minor (but gorgeous) Palladian country
houses - Philipps, Pythouse, Wardour - that you realise that round here
taken for granted is pretty amazing.


The case against 
The A303. You can, just about, avoid it. Off the beaten track. Rat
runners like me.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly from Tisbury to Salisbury (15-22 mins) and Waterloo
(1hr 50 mins) one way, Yeovil (30 mins) and Exeter (1hr 30 mins) the
other. Driving: 20-30 mins to Shaftesbury or Salisbury; well placed
for Bath, Winchester, Bournemouth or Southampton, all 45-60 mins.


Schools 
Primaries: Ludwell, Semley C of E, Wardour Catholic, St John's C of E,
Hindon C of E and Dinton C of E are "good", says Ofsted, with Chilmark
and Fonthill Bishop C of E, and Broad Chalke C of E "outstanding".
Secondaries: Shaftesbury is "good", and in Salisbury, St Edmund's Girls
and St Josephs Catholic are "good", with Bishop Wordsworths Grammar
(boys) "outstanding".


Hang out at 
Rather a below-the-radar gastro hotspot. Take your pick from the
Beckford Arms, Tisbury, Howards House, Pythouse Kitchen Garden or the
Forester in Donhead St Andrew.


Where to buy 
Tisbury is the heart, with a nice old centre at the top of the High
Street, but I prefer quieter villages like Teffont Magna, Barford St
Martin, or Hindon. Lots of thatched cottages; commuter suburbans in
Tisbury. Detacheds and town houses, 250,000-2.5m. Few semis. Terraces
and cottages, 150,000-300,000. Flats, 100,000-300,000. Rentals:
one-bed flats, 500pcm; three-bed houses, 750-1,250pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Stone, two-bed cottage in Tisbury, 155,000 with connells.co.uk. Tom
Dyckhoff


From the streets

Matt McMinn 
"In Tisbury we have a great deli, an award-winning florist (Ted Martin
Flowers), a butcher, a potter with shop, and a plethora of pubs.
Tisbury also has a great open-air pool, community spirit, summer
carnival and Christmas market. I commute to London daily (another
plus as the train line is direct to Waterloo)."


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 January 2016.


Comments

After last week's events, what better resolution for 2016 than to
move to valleys?

Tadcaster was also here a few weeks ago.

Don't all rush to comment...

 

