Let's move to Luton, Bedfordshire: it's very connected

With many trains each hour to London and elsewhere, plus the airport,
good schools and leafy areas, Luton is not to be sneered at

Luton

Luton: 'It has remnants of its heyday.'


What's going for it? 
Luton, these days, can come with a sneer. We can blame Campari, of
course, whose airport-related 1970s ad with Lorraine Chase made it OK
to smirk knowingly at anyone non-U enough to pass through for
Benidorm. Luton has since been a byword for non-aspiration, the kind
of place George, rather than Mildred, would be content to end his
days. A decade before, though, Luton was living the dream. The town
still has remnants of its heyday, pleasant parks and avenues in the
north, good schools, civic spirit in its carnival arts centre, though
it can be buried under headlines about creative estate agents
marketing flats as being in London, easyJet and Islamic
radicalisation.


The case against 
It is not the most aesthetically beautiful of spots (though there is
beauty next door, thanks to the Chiltern Hills). Social and economic
problems persist in chunks of the town.


Well connected? 
Very. Trains: on the Thameslink to Sutton or Brighton, via St Albans
(15 minutes; six an hour), West Hampstead (28-39 mins; four an hour),
London St Pancras (23-49 mins; six an hour) and London Blackfriars
(46-62 mins; six an hour) and many services north. Driving: beside
the M1; 20 mins to St Albans and the M25, 30 mins to Milton Keynes,
45 to Northampton and 60 to central London. And your very own
airport.


Schools 
Primaries: many "good" (Ofsted), Hillborough is "outstanding".
Secondaries: Cardinal Newman Catholic , Lea Manor High, Lealands
High, Icknield High, Stopsley High, Putteridge High, Ashcroft High
and Stockwood Park Academy are all "good"; Denbigh High and Challney
High for Boys "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The Alankar - well known as a great Asian restaurant. But this isn't
a culinary hotspot.


Where to buy 
Memorise these words: "Just off Old Bedford Road". Or, indeed, just
on it. Or the New Bedford Road. North Luton is leafier, hugging
pleasant parks like Wardown. Lots from the 1920s, 1930s heyday,
especially semis. Challney is a bit cheaper, or Puttridge, Barton
Hills and Bushmead. Large detacheds and townhouses, £480,000-£1.5m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £290,000-£480,000. Semis,
£190,000-£480,000. Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£300,000. Flats,
£100,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £450-£750pcm;
three-bedroom house, £850-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
What about a three-bedroom semi, needing an update, for £259,000 with
country-properties.co.uk.


From the streets

Philip Runeckles 
"Unpretentious, multicultural, with beautiful surrounding
countryside. Good transport connections. Stockwood Park Discovery
Centre is great for children."

Peter Marshall 
"It's just awful. All the worst social problems of post-industrial
England with the added joy of London prices."


Live in Luton? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.


Comments

Having experienced year on year house price inflation of about 20%
over the last couple of years, you can take a very big guess which
London suburb will crash the hardest once the bubble deflates.

I'm inclined to agree with the wider point you're making, although
not the specific. London house prices may stagnate, but a crash seems
highly unlikely. Luton is gradually becoming another part of the
London conurbation, and since 2011 it finally has the transport
infrastructure to sustain that position, so I don't think the prices
will fall. That being said, you're right about ridiculous levels of
house price inflation in the town and these have changed the
character of the place

'Peter Marshall "It's just awful. All the worst social problems of
post-industrial England with the added joy of London prices."'

I'm sold, might get myself a holiday home.


 

