Let's move to Braunton, Croyde and Woolacombe, Devon

If the Beach Boys had tried the cream teas and surf round here, they'd
be wishing they could all be Devonians

Photograph of Woolacombe beach

Woolacombe beach was voted Britain's best by TripAdvisor last year.


What's going for it? 
I'm not completely au fait with their oeuvre, but I don't think the
Beach Boys harmonised about cream teas or clotted cream, thatched
cottages and fat pasties. Imagine if they'd hung out here in Britain's
surfers paradise, instead of LA! I wish they all could be a Devonian.
Even having pasty in the same sentence as surf dude seems an
oxymoron, but here they are, cheek by jowl, along with the odd palm
tree, its fronds caressed by the gulf stream. Its beautiful enough
here to inspire lyrics and melodies as lush as Brian Wilson's, though,
with gaping bays of soft sand and vast breakers (Woolacombe beach was
voted Britains best by TripAdvisor last year), rock pools, ragged
hills such as Baggy Point and pubs doling out frothy craft beer.
Theres even a beach - Barricane - where tropical shells wash up, as if
this corner of Britain were umbilically tied to warmer climes.


The case against 
This is second-home central, so prices are high. The economy is very
seasonal: in summer, it's rammed, though it's not hard to find quieter
spots. Full frontal for those westerlies.


Well connected? 
Hardly in the thick of things. Trains: Barnstaple is the nearest
station, 10 miles off, with hourly trains on the slow line to Exeter
(66-85 minutes). Driving: just over an hour to the M5, 90 minutes to
Exeter; Exmoor on the doorstep.


Schools 
Primaries: Kingsacre, Caen Community and Southmead, all in Braunton,
are "good", Ofsted says, with Woolacombe and Georgeham CofE
"outstanding". Secondaries: Braunton Academy "requires improvement";
Pilton Community College in Barnstaple is "good".


Hang out at 
The Thatch in Croyde or the Rock at Georgeham; Sandleigh Tea Room for
the cream teas; the surf to work them off.


Where to buy 
The fronts at Woolacombe and Croyde are awash with swanky pads and
great views; in the lanes behind, there's everything from thatched
cottages to Edwardian villas; a few new-build apartment blocks, too,
plus stone farmhouses out of town. Inland, Braunton is a bit cheaper,
with whitewashed cottages near South, East and North Streets;
suburbans by Higher Park Road. Detacheds and town houses, 260,000-2m.
Semis, 150,000-500,000. Terraces and cottages, 140,000-330,000.
Flats, 140,000-400,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, 600pcm; three-bed
house, 600-750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A two-bed cottage a short walk from the surf beach, 295,000 with
Taylor Underwood.


From the streets

Josie Huxtable 
"The best thing is the sea and the endless sky. I love the buzz of
summer, people everywhere, kids playing on the beach."

Leanne Pemberton 
"The houses are beautiful, with amazing views - half are second homes.
Head to Hobbs Bistro for dinner. Can be a ghost town in winter."


Live in Braunton, Croyde and Woolacombe, Devon? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 19 January.


Comments

Woolacombe beach is awesome, some wonderful surrounding countryside
too - don't think I could live in Devon though, maybe when I am 70
I'll think differently?

Braunton, Croyde and Woolacombe

But be honest though, would you really want to live in a place named
after a firm of solicitors?

Am I permitted a LOL?

"Can be a ghost town in winter".

Would suit ghost.

