Let's move to Stranraer and the Rhinns, Dumfries and Galloway: escape
here

Nobody would find you on the edge of the edge

'Portpatrick is a delight.'

'Portpatrick is a delight.'


What's going for it? 
It's not often we get to use the word "isthmus" on Let's move to, but
today, folks, is the day. For Stranraer sits on one. Google it, if
you're scratching your head trying to remember first-year geography
classes. Because Stranraer's isthmus defines the place. Here Britain
narrows to a pinch - the isthmus - before stretching out as the
Rhinns, a "broad headland" or "fat nose" - both Gaelic origins of
Stranraer's name. People used to schlep here for the ferry port. The
isthmus was a gateway to other lands. But now that's moved up the
coast to Cairnryan the isthmus seems like more of a wall, lending a
feeling of isolation to the low hills beyond, suspended in the ocean,
as close in spirit and history to Ireland as to the British Isles. On
the plus side this is a fabulous place to escape to. Nobody would
find you on the edge of the edge about to drop off the mainland,
accompanied only by kittiwakes and hunkered down amid old-fashioned
shops like Fraser's butchers and Chinese takeaways preserved from
1974.


The case against 
Such isolation is not for everyone. It's taken some hits since the
ferry service moved. Regeneration is continuing, but it'll be a long
road. The glorious waterfront needs work. Stranraer can feel a tad
drab.


Well connected? 
Far from the thick of it. Trains: to Ayr (one hour 25 minutes) and
Kilmarnock (one hour 50) every couple of hours; a couple a day to
Glasgow (two hours 35 minutes). Driving: 90 minutes to Dumfries, an
hour and 20 to Ayr, two hours to the M6, a little more to Carlisle.


Schools 
Primaries: Sheuchan and Belmont "good" or "very good", says Education
Scotland, and Castle Kennedy "very good". Secondaries: Stranraer
Academy is mostly "satisfactory".


Hang out at... 
The Central Cafe. Nearby, Knockinaam Lodge for posh.


Where to buy 
Stranraer is a sprawling low town of cottages and terraces. The
centre has a few fragments of old town, but is mostly Victorian. The
waterfront has nice stretches up to Agnew Crescent; beyond up to
Leswalt for suburbans. On the Rhinns, Portpatrick is a delight, a
Victorian holiday resort. Plenty of hamlets like Port Logan to get
away from it all. Large detacheds and town houses, £250,000-£325,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £140,000-£250,000. Semis,
£125,000-£250,000. Terraces, £75,000-£170,000.


Bargain of the week 
A stunning four-bedroom Edwardian house for £325,000 with
ckdgalbraith.co.uk.


From the streets

Sheena Ramsay 
"It's the best of all worlds: a rural location, right by the sea, and
a friendly town. Try the seafood restaurant Henrys Bayhouse, which
looks straight up Loch Ryan. My kids are at the great Stranraer
Academy, and very happy."

Marion Currie 
"Nearby Lochinch Castle is a lovely day out, five miles away."


Live in Stranraer and the Rhinns, Dumfries and Galloway? Join the
debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.


 

