Let's move to Fishguard and Newport, Pembrokeshire: 'They're rather
idyllic'

They're remote, but that goes with the territory

Lower Town Harbour, Fishguard, Pembrokeshire, Wales, UK

Fishguard: 'Boats in the harbour, wooded slopes and tranquil beaches.'


What's going for it? 
Those wily French! No sooner had they stormed the Bastille than they
had designs on storming us. Again. The last invasion of Britain took
place on 22 February 1797, just outside Fishguard, though it seems
more omnishambles than shock and awe. Two of the three prongs of
attack were scuppered by bad weather; the third was marred by a right
old shower. Many opted to get drunk and loot farmhouses; the rest
were seen off after a couple of days by reservists and locals,
including folk heroine Jemima Nicholas who, it's reputed, rounded up
a dozen Frenchies with nothing more than a pitchfork. That's the
spirit. After which Fishguard and its mini-me Newport returned to
business as usual, catching herring and supping ale. Today, they're
rather idyllic, with their boats bobbing in the harbour, their wooded
slopes and tranquil beaches, while tourists and downshifters hungry
for the Pembrokeshire Experience invade Tenby and the south coast,
armed with selfie sticks and demands for artisan ice-cream.


The case against 
They're remote, but that kind of goes with the territory.


Well connected? 
There's a station, but few trains: five direct trains a day to
Carmarthen (50 mins), a couple of direct trains a day to Cardiff
(2-3hrs). Driving: half-hour drives to Haverfordwest and , an hour to
Carmarthen, 90 mins to Swansea. Buses to Haverfordwest, Cardigan and
St David's.


Schools 
Primaries: Fishguard's Glannau Gwaun and Holy Name Catholic are
"adequate", Newport's Bro Ingli is "good", Estyn says. Secondaries:
Fishguard's Bro Gwaun is "adequate".


Hang out at... 
Cnapan or the Golden Lion, both in Newport; the Fishguard Arms or the
Royal Oak in Fishguard, where the Frenchies got drunk.


Where to buy 
Fishguard is a game of three halves: the pretty Lower Town down on
the harbour, all wooded slopes, pebbledashed cottages, slipways and
seaweed; the main town up the hill, with fine sea views, whitewashed
or brightly painted town houses and terraces; and Goodwick, home to
the ferry and train station, and a more humdrum affair. Newport, on
the other side of Dinas Head, is smaller and quieter, straggly with
old stone houses tumbling to the beach. Large detacheds and town
houses, £300,000-£400,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£150,000-£300,000. Semis, £110,000-£250,000. Terraces and cottages,
£80,000-£125,000. The rental market is teeny.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bed terrace, £90,000.


From the streets

Phil Rowson 
"The Cambo pub, short for Cambrian: a proper local for young and old,
families, regulars and drop-ins."

Angela Griffiths 
"The Gourmet Pig deli for Welsh cheeses, wines and beer - they serve
great coffee, too. The Royal Oak pub has a fantastic folk night every
Tuesday."


Live in Fishguard and Newport, Pembrokeshire? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20 December.


Comments

Had a six day break in Fishguard back in May.

T-shirt weather every day in Fishguard, jacket on whilst walking on
the excellent beaches surrounding the town though. 80p a day for car
parking, good pub food with sensible pricing too.

Plenty of good cycling to be had in the area, friendly people in
shops, pubs, cinemas and supermarkets too.


 

