Let's move to Lynton and Lynmouth, north Devon: stout legs required

It's a dramatic landscape, all vertiginous drops and corniche drives
along cliff tops

The coastal village of Lynmouth, Exmoor National Park

Lynmouth: It's a rollercoaster ride, but the thrills are worth it.


What's going for it? 

On a family holiday in Lynton and Lynmouth in the 1970s, the brakes
went on the car. As anyone who has visited Lynton and Lynmouth will
know this is not the best spot on planet Earth for ones brakes to go.
It is jolly hilly, dangling off a cleft in the Exmoor cliffs. Images
of the family clinging on to the banger are gouged deep in my memory.
I should probably see a counsellor. Still, it's in keeping with the
place. This is a dramatic landscape, all vertiginous drops and
corniche drives along cliff tops. Thats why the Georgians and
Victorians made this one of their favourite resorts, scattering
villas and periwinkles picturesquely across the valley to get their
hearts racing; Shelley came here for his honeymoon. Drama tipped over
into disaster in 1952, when a thunderstorm broke over the area,
destroying buildings, bridges and killing 34 people - though living
life on the edge has bred a certain stout resolve and self-reliance
in Lynton and Lynmouth. It's a rollercoaster ride, but the thrills are
worth it.


The case against 
Stout legs required. And keep the brake fluid topped up. The hills do
loom when the sun behind you is low in the southern sky. Bit of a
tourist honeypot. Still relatively isolated.


Well connected? 
Trains: the nearest is in Barnstaple, a half-hour drive away, with
hourly trains on the Tarka line to Exeter (66-82 mins). Driving:
Ilfracombe is the nearest big town, half an hour away. The M5 is an
hour and a quarter away on a good day.


Schools 
Primaries: both Lynton C of E and nearby Parracombe C of E "require
improvement", says Ofsted, though they are "taking effective action".
Secondaries: ditto the nearest secondary, Ilfracombe Academy, also
"taking effective action", though Pilton Community College and Park
Community in Barnstaple are both "good".


Hang out at 
The Rising Sun in Lynmouth is your archetypical thatched, whitewashed
Exmoor pub.


Where to buy 
Stone-fronted or rendered, balconied Victorian gothic terraces, semis
and detached villas. Plus the odd Exmoor farmhouse and whitewashed
fishermens cottage. Large detacheds and town houses, 350,000-800,000.
Detacheds, 200,000-350,000. Semis, 200,000-400,000. Terraces and
cottages, 175,000-275,000. Flats, 110,000-225,000. Rentals: few; a
two-bed house, 450-650 pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Want a challenge? Ten-bedroom Victorian detached villa in Lynton,
695,000. With stags.co.uk.


From the streets

Jeanette Moorcroft 
"Scary cliffside car ride around Woody Bay and the Woody Bay train
line, which kids love."

Lois Phelps 
"Some amazing sandy beaches a short drive from Lynmouth. Putsborough
beach and Croyde are a surfers paradise or head for Braunton Burrows,
huge sand dunes."


Live in Lynton and Lynmouth? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 14 June.

 

