Let's move to Monmouth and the lower Wye valley: where sightseeing
began

Its toytown streets and thriving culture are a perfect escape from
the rat race

Monmouth high street

Monmouth: 'It has bloody past.'


What's going for it? 
Funny how history of the most violent kind can, centuries later,
become picturesque. This was border country 1,000 years ago, the
river Wye as divisive as the Rio Grande, and Monmouth built by our
Norman overlords with high walls and watchtowers to keep the Welsh
from the region's precious iron. Today we gaze on the ancient walls
and fortified bridge with selfie sticks, and drift down the
once-bloody wooded Wye on pleasure cruisers gawping at misty Tintern
Abbey. The Shire Hall may look all Downton Abbey-ish, but in its
chilly halls our Chartist comrades were sentenced to hanging, drawing
and quartering. The Wye valley and Monmouth were where modern-day
sightseeing began in the 18th century, so it's perfectly pretty, the
kind of place you or I might decide upon to escape the rat race, with
its toytown streets and thriving culture. Just remember its bloody
past when you skip down heritage streets en route for a slice of
locally churned ewe's milk cheese. In the words of Marxist theorist
Henri Lefebvre: "Spaces sometime lie."


The case against... 
Getting about is slow: narrow lanes, few river crossings and
geography field trip coaches do not a happy driver make.


Well connected? 
Trains: you'll have to drive to the nearest stations at Abergavenny
(20 minutes) and Chepstow (half an hour). Driving: 30 minutes to the
M4, 45 to Gloucester. Buses: hourly to Chepstow (50 minutes).


Schools 
Primaries: Many "good", with St Briavels CofE and Whitchurch CofE
"outstanding", says Estyn. Secondaries: Monmouth Comprehensive is
"adequate"; Monmouth School and Haberdashers' Monmouth School for
Girls are the independents.


Hang out at... 
Lots of fabulous country pubs. Foodie star The Whitebrook is a few
miles out of town.


Where to buy 
Monmouth has historic homes from 18th-century cottages and Georgian
town houses to Victorian semis. Most prized, though, are farms with
paddocks, or barn conversions, snuggled down deep valleys and wooded
lanes in the Wye valley itself: snoop round villages like Brockweir,
Whitchurch, Trellech, Llandogo and Penallt. Large detacheds and town
houses, £400,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£160,000-£400,000. Semis, £140,000-£320,000. Terraces and cottages,
£130,000-£175,000. Flats, £70,000-£240,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
£450-£550pcm; three-bed house, £650-£950pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A two/three-bedroom cottage needing refurbishment on the Wye, with a
quarter of an acre perfect for growing your organic radishes:
£180,000 with parrys.com.


From the streets

Jackie Crossman 
"Beautiful country, great schools and fabulous independent shops like
Green & Jenks ice cream parlour. The Savoy Theatre is one of the
oldest cinemas still in use in the country."

Patrick Newbound 
"As an ex-Londoner, the only thing I miss is a wider selection of
restaurants, although what we have here is pretty good."


Live in Monmouth and the lower Wye valley? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2 August.

This article was amended on 3 August 2016. An earlier version said
Usk railway station was a 20-minute drive away from Monmouth. Usk
station closed in 1955.


 

