Let's move to Steyning, West Sussex

If Brighton's getting a bit lively for you, nearby Steyning might be
perfect

Steyning, West Sussex

Steyning: One of those delightful towns over the hump of the South
Downs.


What's going for it? 
Brighton is so, like, over. 2016 is all about Steyning. OK, not all
about Steyning. But a bit. Small market towns are where most people
want to live these days, and are happiest, said so-and-sos report the
other week. I can believe it. I quite understand why you moved to
Brighton. Escape the rat race. Images of nightly cocktails on the
beach jiggering to Fatboy Slim. But face facts: a time comes in most
people's lives when they can't be arsed paying oligarchs rates for the
privilege of lively living, aka slipping the baby-buggy through a
tide of pavement sick, dodging hen parties and the waft of doughnut
fat. When you reach that point, may I recommend Steyning? One of
those delightful towns (Arundel, Lewes, et al) over the hump of the
South Downs, all snuggly with its ruined Bramber Castle, hunched
parish church, knobby flint cottages and half timbers, bookshops and
Brighton (though, like most of Sussex, Steyning has its tales of
avant-garde shenanigans), but theres only time for so much debauchery
if you're up all night on nappy duty.


The case against 
The quiet life. While cheaper than Brighton, it isn't, um, cheap.


Well connected? 
Trains: Shoreham, five miles away, has services to Brighton (16
minutes, two an hour) and Chichester (40 minutes, twice hourly); or
drive to Burgess Hill for several trains an hour to Blackfriars,
Victoria and St Pancras (50-60 minutes). Driving: 10 minutes to
Shoreham, 30 to Brighton.


Schools 
Primaries: Steyning CofE is "good", Ofsted says, Upper Beeding
outstanding. Secondaries: Steyning Grammar is "good", too.


Hang out at 
The Sussex Produce Company, a restaurant-cum-greengrocer, if you're
The Steyning Tea Rooms if you're not.


Where to buy 
You name the period, there's a house here: medieval hall houses with
inglenooks, Georgian rectories, thatch, flint, modern. Start with the
winding old streets in the centre: High Street and, especially,
Church Street and Vicarage Lane. Replicated in miniature in Bramber,
where the port once was, and across the Adur the riverside village of
Upper Beeding. Detacheds and town houses, 400,000-1m. Semis,
275,000-750,000. Terraces and cottages, 250,000-400,000. Flats,
130,000-250,000. Little for rent: a four-bed house might be 1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bed 1960s semi, needing updating. Not picture-postcard, but
good value at 345,000, kingandchasemore.co.uk.


From the streets

Patta Tolputt 
"Steyning Butchers is second to none. Can't find a better coffee than
at Stan's Bike Shack."

Robin Milner-Gulland 
"A town for 1,000 years (not to be labelled a village!), with the best
medieval houses in Sussex. Splendid walks on the Downs."

Calum Chace 
"A lively community of writers, artists and other creative people."


Do you live in Steyning? Join the debate below. 


Live in Barnstaple, Devon? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 22 March.

 

