Let's move to Ottery St Mary, Devon: 'It's fond of its quaint customs'

We can only applaud this plucky town

Ottery St Mary, Devon

Ottery St Mary: 'A predictably pretty affair.'


What's going for it? 
"Tradition has it": three words to strike terror into the souls of
the sane. Tradition has it that on 5 November the people of Ottery St
Mary shall run through the streets of the town carrying flaming 30kg
barrels of tar above their heads. Why? Why not? Tradition has it. The
West Country is full of fire and light festivals as autumn tumbles
towards winter. No stranger, after all, than throwing effigies of
catholics/Donald Trump on a bonfire. Some say Ottery St Mary's Guy
Fawkes night tradition was to cleanse the streets of evil, or maybe
rats. Whatevs. These days it's all about prowess. Only Ottery
families born and bred can take part in the dozens of barrel runs
around the town's old streets from pub to pub. In these days of
banned bonfires and 'elf and safety gawn mad, we can only applaud
this plucky town. Indeed, Ottery is fond of its quaint customs. The
parish church peals out the Ottery Song three times a day, and just
wait till you hear what the townsfolk get up to with the bellringers
on Pixie Day.


The case against 
No butterfingers, please! There are hills in Ottery. A little Wicker
Man from this end of the A303.


Well connected? 
Trains: no, you'll need to head to Exeter. Driving: half an hour to
Exeter, 20 mins to the M5.


Schools 
Primaries: Ottery St Mary Primary "requires improvement", but nearby
Tipton St John CofE and Sidbury CofE are "good", says Ofsted, with
West Hill and Feniton CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: The King's
School is "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The Rusty Pig - locally sourced meat, veg and salads, and run like a
supper club on Thursdays to Saturdays. Good breakfasts, too.
Tickety-Boo coffee shop: cakes, play area.


Where to buy 
Ottery is a predictably pretty affair, with old streets of cottages
and town houses huddling round the parish church, its twin transept
towers echoing those of Exeter cathedral. There's a nice line in
two-bed, 18th-century cottages. Explore the country lanes and
neighbouring villages like Tipton St John. Large detacheds and town
houses, £400,000-£750,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£220,000-£400,000. Semis, £140,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£125,000-£240,000. Rentals: few, a three-bed house might be £950pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Pretty, double-fronted, two-bed detached house with a lovely little
garden, £169,950, with humberts.com.


From the streets

Rosina Northcott 
"I love that it's a five-minute walk to the countryside yet still
only 15-20 minutes to drive to Exeter. A bit of flooding happens
every now and again."

Ruud Jansen Venneboer 
"Lovely independent shops, cafes and restaurants. Traffic can get
crazy. Not a huge amount for teenagers to do."


Live in Ottery St Mary? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 November.


Comments

Trains: if it's Waterloo you're after rather than Paddington or
points north, Honiton is only 10 minutes drive away.
And the Ottery Song rings out once every 4 hours, day and night!

run like a supper club on Thursdays to Saturdays

Is that a good or bad thing? I'm afraid I am less than au fait with
contemporary supper club practices.

Run 'like' a supper club. Not sure what that means, but I know the
Rusty Pig well and a better way of putting it would be relaxed rather
than formal dining.


 

