Let's move to Barnstaple: 'It has potential'

Once upon a time it was the third megalopolis of Devon - but could it
really be quite the place again?

Barnstaple, Devon

Barnstaple, Devon: 'It has some fine and pretty streets.'


What's going for it? 
"Barnstaple: it's a must" goes the town's slogan, which is, perhaps,
overdoing it a little. "It's a quite possibly" might be more
accurate. Barnstaple has potential. Once upon a time it was quite the
place, all Norman barons, wool exports and grand architecture, the
third megalopolis of Devon, after Exeter and Plymouth. Then it
wasn't. That's how fortune goes. Now it sits in North Devon without
much to do, bypassed by holidaymakers en route for the sands at
Croyde and Woolacombe. On the plus side, being mostly overlooked by
much of the 20th century means it has some fine and pretty streets, a
potentially beautiful waterfront, a 1930s cinema that seems barely
changed since The Poseidon Adventure was up on its silver screen, and
a nice line in historic arches: Barnstaple Long Bridge over the Taw
has 16, the Victorian Pannier Market on Butchers Row 33. Were its
light not quite so hidden under its bushel, Barnstaple could be quite
the place again.


The case against 
Lacks va-va-voom. The centre has messed-about spots (ring roads,
banal 80s offices) and the High Street is humdrum. Without the car
parks and big roads, its riverside could be amazing.


Well connected? 
Trains: hourly on the Tarka Line to Exeter (66-82 mins). Driving:
15-20 mins to the beaches and Exmoor, 45 mins to the M5, an hour to
Taunton and just over an hour to Exeter.


Schools 
Primaries: Pilton Bluecoat C of E, Yeo Valley, Our Lady's Catholic,
Ashleigh C of E, Orchard Vale and Sticklepath Community are all
"good", Ofsted says, with Newport Community "outstanding".
Secondaries: the Park and Pilton Community College are both "good".


Hang out at... 
Your ordinary pub kind of place. In need of innovation. Head out of
town to Broomhill Art hotel, or the Muddiford Inn, the Fremington
Quay Cafe or the New Inn at Goodleigh.


Where to buy 
Pilton Street. In Barnstaple proper, head south-east to Newport for
fine Regency and later villas; Rock Park, Victoria Road, and out to
suburbans at Rumsam or south-west to Sticklepath. Villagey terraces
around Vicarage Street and Bear Street. Detacheds and town houses,
£330,000-£600,000. Semis, £150,000-£350,000. Terraces and cottages,
£140,000-£300,000. Flats, £80,000-£175,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
£375-£475pcm; three-bed house, £550-£850pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Pretty two-bed listed period cottage on historic Litchdon Street,
£124,950, with chequershomes.co.uk.


From the streets

Chris Baker 
"Starfish for fish and chips. Wild & Natural on Butchers Row for
well-hung venison."

Peter Hames 
"The 19th-century indoor Pannier Market is delightful, right in the
middle of town. For its award-winning restaurant, beautiful sculpture
garden and indoor art exhibits, head to Broomhill Art hotel just
outside Barnstaple."


Live in Barnstaple? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 19 April.


Comments

That. If lack of space is no big deal.

No. Leave it alone. Buy your second houses in Bulgaria.

Cue locals smugly and in their minds, original commenting that it's
shit, don't.... Oh you did already.

 

