Let's move to Bowness and Windermere: there's charm behind the
Beatrix Potter cutesiness

The tourist hordes and gift shops can be suffocating in high season,
but if you do what Miss Potter did - use your imagination - it's
still a top draw

Bowness backstreet

Bowness: 'I quite like the kiss-me-quickness of the town.'


What's going for it? 
A ghostly Beatrix Potter is often to be seen of an evening wandering
Bowness in her nightie, wailing "Look on my works, ye mighty, and
despair!" Ms P lived by Near Sawrey, just across Lake Windermere, a
safe distance from the coach parties. Prescient. For these days the
universe she created has ballooned into an empire mightier than those
ruled over by that other Potter, Harry, Thomas the Tank Engine and
Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles combined. Bowness is its imperial heart.
This time of the year, its lanes and alleys course with rabid
pensioners hungry for a glimpse of Mrs Tiggy-Winkle. I quite like the
brash, seasidey, kiss-me-quickness of the town. Under its cutesy tat,
though, or off season, its real charm emerges - the lanes of
whitewashed cottages, the coy glimpse of the lake over a stone barn,
the sight of a bunny rabbit in a veg patch. It's all still there, if
you know where to look. Use your imagination.


The case against... 
50% coach tours, 25% gift shops. Barely affordable. Holiday homed to
the hilt.


Well connected? 
Trains: more or less hourly from Windermere to Kendal (14 mins), and
Oxenholme Lake District (20 mins), where you connect with the West
Coast Mainline. Driving: Kendal 20 minutes, the M6 30, Lancaster 50.
Plenty of buses to Keswick, Kendal, Ambleside, Grasmere, etc. Ferry
services across the lake, too.


Schools 
Primaries: the town's Goodly Dale, St Martin & St Mary CofE and St
Cuthbert's Catholic are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: The
Lakes School, alas, "requires improvement", but is "taking effective
action".


Hang out at... 
Plenty of fancy options, like Holbeck Ghyll, Linthwaite House or
Plenty of homely ones, too; try the Hole in t'Wall or the Royal Oak.


Where to buy 
Bowness is the older of the two. Expect late 19th century and
Edwardian, lots of "Lakeland" whitewash, mock tudor and stone. The
centres have some fine cottages and terraces and a few town houses,
but the big money heads up valley-side lanes off Kendal Road for
views over the lake. There is high demand. Large detacheds and town
houses, £700,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£300,000-£700,000. Semis, £400,000. Terraces and cottages, £320,000.
Flats, £130,000-£400,000. Little for long-term rent.


Bargain of the week 
Little. This nice four-bed stone Victorian terrace for £235,000 is as
close as we'll get. With hackney-leigh.co.uk.


From the streets
Mike Graham 
"I'm born and bred, and never get tired of the views. People are
always stopping for a chat. We love The Lamplighter for a good meal."

Daniel Barnes 
"Windermere has changed a lot in recent years, with trendy bars such
as The Pig, Fodder and The Crafty Baa. It's a gateway to the
mountains and yet only 15 minutes from the M6."


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, please
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13 September.


Comments

Lake Windermere? I think there's a good dragon boat team that races
there. There's a draw for sure!

Can be summarised as: London, or holiday homes for Londoners.

And always polluted by moaning northerners, obsessed with Londoners.
Notice London was not mentioned in the article?

It is possible to move from somewhere other than London, but don't
let that stop your cliched whinging.

There is a long tradition of non Londoners buying holiday homes in
the Lake District, some even leaving the place with significant
additions to its heritage.

Though I suspect this southern boy's holiday home on Coniston is
probably better known. I am not sure whether in the eyes of the
(Manchester) Guardian and its readers a Mancunian Brewer of
outstanding bevvies trumps a complex and somewhat racist social
analyst and art critic.


 

