Let's move to Aylsham, Norfolk: an extraordinarily ordinary delight

You're out of the way, but that's why you're here, isn't it?


Aylsham, Norfolk: 'It will do nicely.'

Aylsham, Norfolk: 'It will do nicely.'


What's going for it? You don't mind if I do a bit of personal
research masquerading as journalism, do you? ("Isn't that what you do
here every week, Tom?") Will you be my guinea pigs? Ta very much.
Only some friends have to move to Norfolk, so I said I'd scout
around. And I don't mean that Norfolk, all sand dunes and soy lattes.
I mean Norfolk Norfolk. Aylsham will do nicely. It's not so far from
the illustrious north Norfolk coast, but just far enough to keep the
property investors and la-di-das away. But a half-hour drive? That
wouldn't stop me making a spontaneous Saturday morning trip to Cromer
with the kids, picnic blanket, bucket and spade and all in the boot.
Best thing of all to the middle-aged (ie, me)? You get to come home
at the end of the day to Aylsham, one of those extraordinarily
ordinary delights they don't make any more; its Dutch gabled lanes
hung with old butchers that sell lard, a palatial wool-town church,
or the splendidly named Granville Bond fishmongers for crab sarnies,
and - yes - the odd fancy-pants deli and vintage chic home decor
emporium, but not so many as to get the estate agents all frothed up.


The case against 

Very little. You're out of the way, but that's why you're here, isn't
it? The usual small-town blues.


Well connected? 

Trains: none, bar the Bure Valley steam line to Wroxham. Driving: 25
minutes to Cromer, 30 to Norwich and mainline rail.


Schools 

Primaries: Bure Valley and St Michael's CofE are "good", John of
Gaunt "outstanding", Ofsted says. Secondaries: Aylsham High is
"good".


Hang out at... 
Black Boys pub on Market Place is Aylsham's living room. Or Bread
Source behind the town hall for artisan breads and a cosy coffee shop
(thank you, reader Moira Morrissey).


Where to buy 
The old centre is a delightful tangle of lanes (or "lokes"), high
brick walls, 18th-century town houses and cottages, topped with
pantiles and Dutch gables. Start with Hungate Street and head
north-east to Oakfield Road. Nice period property heading out of town
to the river Bure at Millgate. On and off Blickling Road and Cromer
Road for suburbans. Large detacheds and town houses,
£350,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£250,000-£350,000. Semis, £160,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£150,000-£250,000. Few rentals: three-bed house, £650pcm.


Bargain of the week 
This one's mine, OK? Four-bed, listed timbered town house with a
delightful garden, £375,000, with williamhbrown.co.uk. Sold!


From the streets

Cath Thomas 
"It's a near-perfect market town - good independent shops, several
tea rooms. But it's expanding fast: congested, hard to park,
double-decker buses using medieval streets."

Sean Hare 
"Shielded from the world by Norwich being 'in the way'. Large
creative community. A bit of a retirement town but still full of life
by day."


Live in Aylsham? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 4 July.


Comments

I live 20 mins from Aylsham and am very fond of it. For some reason,
however, it has been targeted for a massive amount of housing
development - vast Legoland estates under construction when it has
already suffered several. The infrastructure is not being expanded to
cope, so expect doctors' surgeries and schools to be massively
oversubscribed. As to where all these people will work, well, God
knows. There's very little in an around Aylsham, Cromer isn't exactly
thriving as an employment hotspot, so that means Norwich. Norwich is
I drive in and out of the 'fine' city twice a day for other reasons.
It's within an ace of grinding to a halt, so several hundred more
cars from Aylsham each day are not going to help, even when the
fabled Northern Distributor Road, for which someone forgot to plan a
western end, its most useful feature, opens next year. Aylsham is
lovely at its heart but has tiny car parks and will not be able to
cope with the influx of people moving into the new estates. It will
I would not move there.

Sadly the same is happening all over East Anglia, new estates of
large cod Victorian houses on tiny plots tacked onto every town and
village, linked by narrow B roads.

Decades of under investment in infrastructure and schools, over
stretched health services, mostly low paid work, so the young move
away. Other than that it's lovely.

Norfolk is renowned for having no infrastructure at all.

Some excellent gardens round there, the countryside is quite
undulating for Norfolk.

There is also a great sky looking, I guess, west when you're on the
A40 at Aylsham either coming up to the roundabout from Cromer or as
you start heading towards Norwich. Catches me every time.

 


