Let's move to Lincoln: a small city with chutzpah

Lincoln's used to dusting itself down. That's the thing about being
2,000 years old: you've seen it all before

Lincoln: 'All alone on the A15 to Scunthorpe.'


What's going for it? 

For more than 200 years, until 1548, Lincoln Cathedral was the tallest
building in the world, the skyscraper of its day. Which tells you all
you need to know about this small city in the (mostly) flat lands.
It's got chutzpah. At the time, Lincoln was England's third city, rich
on the cloth trade with Flanders. When its cathedral spire, rotten to
the core, collapsed, it symbolised to many the decline of the city - 
indeed, of the nation - after the reformation. Whatevs. Lincoln's
used to dusting itself down. Try rebuilding your economy after the
collapse of the biggest empire the world has ever seen. Twice. First,
the Romans. Now, the British. Lincoln is now reimagining its
post-industrial future, of course, as a (excuse my language) knowledge
hub. That's the thing about being 2,000 years old: you've seen it all
before. The ups, the downs, the riots, the battles, the Daily Mail
calling it "the city of the walking dead". You'll outlive them all.


The case against 

All alone on the A15 to Scunthorpe. Not that that's held it back
before, but you have to develop a certain tolerance of/love for
Lincolnshireness. It has its share of social problems.


Well connected? 

Trains: get used to the words "change at": either Retford (36 minutes,
hourly) or Newark (30 minutes, twice hourly) for the East Coast
Mainline, making Nottingham an hour and Sheffield 75-90 minutes away.
Driving: half an hour to the A1 at Markham Moor or Newark, the same to
the Wolds; just over an hour to the coast.


Schools 

Primaries: many good, Lincoln Carlton, Mount Street, St
Peter-in-Eastgate CofE Infant and Hartsholme "outstanding".
Secondaries: the Priory City of Lincoln, the Priory Witham, Lincoln
Castle, Sir Robert Pattinson and North Kesteven are "good", with the
Priory LSST "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Old Bakery restaurant.


Where to buy 

The Lincoln Cliff splits the city into Uphill and, you guessed it,
Downhill. The historic city is mostly in Uphill, with Victorian and
older on and off Bailgate, Eastgate and Westgate; off Steep Hill
(bring thighs) plus the West End. The old roads out of town for period
property. Detacheds and town houses, £150,000-£800,000. Semis,
£100,000-£325,000. Terraces and cottages, £75,000-£360,000. Flats,
£60,000-£450,000. Students drive a lively rental market: one-bed
flat, £400-£800pcm; three-bed house, £400-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Five-bed town house with stupendous views in the old town, currently
as flats, £485,000, with humberts.com.



From the streets

Mike Neary 
"Elena's Kitchen, in the West End, a part of the city full of Guardian
readers."

Michael Stocks 
"A tale of two cities: Downhill, a mostly modern city centre, and
Uphill, with the cathedral, castle (with Magna Carta), ancient Steep
Hill and Bailgate with fascinating shops, Roman ruins, restaurants and
hotels."



Do you live in Lincoln? Join the debate below.

Live in Whitby, North Yorkshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 31 October.



Comments

There are more and more middle class people in Lincoln these days
sadly. Even outwith the uphill/cathedral area.

We need the middle class - it's how places grow and become even nicer
to live in.

You said the same thing about Berwick-upon-Tweed last week, and Dollis
Hill the week before. What do you have against middle class people?

The best pub (from a good range) is the Strugglers at Westgate for the
tremendous beer, the practice Christmas in September and the annual
conkers championship; The Burton Road Chippie is fantastic and there
is always something going on in the uphill area or the university.
Lincoln City FC have brought real pride to the city - great atmosphere
on match days. It's the best little city in England.

Dare to suggest The Victoria and Smiths chip pie on Wragby Road are
better?

The award winning Burton Road chippy is superb.

