Let's move to Romford, east London: 'They know how to have a good time'

'Historic market town' is stretching the point, but this is a great place to party

'In the cruel light of morning, Romford has much to comfort a hangover.'

'In the cruel light of morning, Romford has much to comfort a hangover.'


What's going for it? 

Not, you'd think, the most obvious place in which to see in the new
year. (Though with the year we've had, who cares?) But you'd be wrong.
Romford, as anyone who has been there on a Friday night knows, has the
capital's largest night-time economy outside central London. They know
how to have a good time, and I'm sure they'll be having one tomorrow
night. The centre is comprised of 33% Jaegerbombs, 20% tequila
slammers, 17% swaying vigorously to Dancing Queen, 15% "I love you,
mate" and 15% regrets. The rest is bricks and mortar. Not very
beautiful bricks and mortar, but, like much of life, better-looking at
11pm with four pints inside you. In the cruel light of morning,
though, Romford has much to comfort a hangover: a fabulous market,
great property (oh, Gidea Park!) and a bright future at one end of the
Elizabeth line.


The case against 

The sign says "historic market town", but that's stretching the
definition. Not the most diverse part of London: solidly Conservative,
it saw one of the country's highest leave votes.


Well connected? 

Trains: eight an hour to Liverpool Street (17-31 mins); this time next
year, the Elizabeth line will run to Paddington, and eventually
Heathrow and Reading; the District line skirts south at Hornchurch and
Upminster. Driving: 15 mins to the M25, 30 to the Dartford Crossing or
M11.


Schools 

Primaries: among many good, St Peter's Catholic, Ardleigh Green,
Broadford, St Ursula's Catholic and Nelmes "outstanding". Secondaries:
Frances Bardsley Academy for Girls, The Royal Liberty (boys), The
Campion (Catholic), Drapers' Academy and Redden Court are "good".


Hang out at...

Anywhere. There's lots of hanging out, in every sense. For food,
Kervan Saray does good Turkish, and decent pubs like the Orange Tree,
Ship and Shepherd & Dog keep us oldies happy.


Where to buy 

Gidea Park is a delight, a "garden suburb" created by 100 architects
in the early 20th century, with designs from half-timbered to
ultra-modernist. Not cheap, mind. Otherwise, stick near Raphael Park.
Late Victorian to endless 1930s suburbs (Hylands Park, Ardleigh
Green). Or out-of-town "villages" like Havering-atte-Bower or
Shepherds Hill. Detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£1.5m. Semis,
£300,000-£800,000. Terraces and cottages, £250,000-£550,000.
Flats, £175,000-£420,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £800-£1,200pcm;
three-bed house, £1,000-£1,800pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Needs updating, but this three-bed is convenient for the centre and
Elizabeth line; £340,000, with haart.co.uk.


From the streets

Jill and Geoff Grote 
"Lots of terrific green, open spaces, which are ideal for walking.
Tad's at the Retailery for the best coffee in Romford, plus the Ship
in Gidea Park for a traditional, very historic pub."

Emma Halstead 
"We're counting the months until the Elizabeth line opens next year."



Live in Romford? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Stroud, Gloucestershire? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2
January.
 