Let's move to Rothbury, Northumberland: 'It's pretty near perfect'

Fortified farmhouses, wild countryside, model country pubs and
shopkeepers who know their customers: what's not to like?

Rothbury, Northumberland: 'Watch out for trolls in the Simonside
Hills.'

Rothbury, Northumberland: 'Watch out for trolls in the Simonside
Hills.' Photograph: Getty Images


What's going for it? Oh Cragside! If you haven't been, drop what
you're doing right now. Stop reading this. Put down your Shreddies.
And the smartphone. To the train station with you. What a place:
Cragside was built on the outskirts of remote Rothbury by William
Armstrong, a Victorian multimillionaire arms manufacturer, scientist
and ship-builder, using the most famous architect, Richard Norman
Shaw, and the highest technology of the day. He built his own power
station on site, to generate electricity for his dishwashers, washing
machines, security systems and telephones - all in the 1880s! He
hauled 7m trees into the gardens, dug out five artificial lakes and
spread his largesse into town, which owes its restored architecture
to the baron.


The delightfully named Coquetdale is remote and wild, with
Northumbria's forests on the doorstep, so maybe it's not for the
metropolitan. Watch out for trolls in the Simonside Hills, rumoured
to attack walkers and dampen house prices. Them apart, it's pretty
near perfect.


Well connected? Trains: the nearest is the east coast mainline, 20
minutes' drive away in Alnmouth or Morpeth. Driving: you can be up in
the national park in minutes, it's 20 minutes to the A1, to Alnwick,
half an hour to the coast or Morpeth, and 45 minutes to Newcastle.
There are buses to Newcastle via Morpeth.


Schools Primaries: Rothbury First and Dr Thomlinson CofE Middle are
both "good", says Ofsted. It's a schlep to the nearest secondary: The
Duchess's Community High (Alnwick) is "good".


Hang out at... Join the queue for pies at Rothbury Home Bakery or cod
at the Fish & Chip Shop. On a diet? Harley's Tea Room. The Anglers
Arms at nearby Weldon Bridge is a model country pub.


Where to buy Being a Victorian resort town, there's some splendid
19th-century rustic gothic: villas, bargeboards, gables and all. Look
for Victorian stone villas and semis, especially on the hillsides. In
the old stone centre, you'll find Georgian and later cottages and
town houses: hunt around the broad, sloping High Street, Market Place
and Church Street. You might even find a fortified bastle farmhouse
or peel tower out of town. Large detacheds and town houses,
£250,000-£700,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£150,000-£250,000. Semis, £110,000-£250,000. Terraces and cottages,
£100,000-£200,000. Few rentals: a two-bed flat is perhaps £500pcm.


Bargain of the week This vast Georgian town house might not seem a
bargain at £615,000: but seven bedrooms! With emoov.co.uk.


From the streets

Liz Holden 
"There's glorious coastline only 30 minutes away, and castles to die
for (Bamburgh, Lindisfarne, Dunstanburgh). Tomlinsons Cafe &
Bunkhouse is great for coffee and lunch."

Alan Winlow 
"There are more sheep than people here, which makes for an idyll,
plus shopkeepers who know their customers and have time to chat."


Live in Rothbury? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23 May.


Comments

Yes, and we want to keep it that way. The last thing we need is
Londoners ruining Northumberland with 'holiday homes' they way they
did with the Lake District and Cornwall.

At least this way they'll all be contained in Rothbury. Rothbury
doesn't do much for me I have to say... but I'm biased because I love
the bleakness of the west of the county/Northumbrian North Pennines.

Erm. Hate to break it to you, but it's started already. Not
Londoners, but rich folk from Newcastle buying up the property along
the coast and pushing up house prices.

Been to Craster recently? Unrecognisable from ten years ago.

Don't advertise the fact it's nice. You'll wreck it.

Too late it seems

 

