Let's move to Blaenafon, Gwent: 'Money and hard work have spruced it
up'

It lacks the obvious beauty of Hay and the Wye valley, but it's as
picturesque as a former mining town can get

Blaenafon, Gwent: 'It hasn't sold its soul.'

Blaenafon, Gwent: 'It hasn't sold its soul.'


What's going for it? 
Last time we came here, 14 years ago, news was Blaenafon was going to
magic itself into Hay-on-Wye. This, the crucible of the Welsh coal
industry, had set upon its postindustrial future: books, cakes and
'eritage. Well, the magic has worked - kinda. It was always a tough
task. Blaenafon lacks the obvious beauty and quaintness of Hay and
the Wye valley and much of its thunder has been stolen by the revival
of Abergavenny, just over the hill. Blaenafon may be as picturesque
as a former mining town in the Welsh valleys can possibly get, but
its beauty comes more from other directions: its doughty community;
the stories of bravery told in the Big Pit museum; and the flavour of
the lamb chops sold in the butchers. Hard work and money have spruced
the place up. Broad Street, with its bunting, cake shops and the
Cheddar Company (its cheeses maturing in the old pits), is jolly. The
museums are busy. It hasn't been transformed into Poshville, but
Blaenafon is surviving and didn't sell its soul to the devil in the
process.


The case against 
On the grey side, visually. Winters can be cruel. Move here for the
long haul, and roll up your sleeves.


Well connected? 
Abergavenny or Pontypool are nearest for trains: hourly to the
Abergavenny or Pontypool, half an hour to Newport and the M4; you can
be up in the Brecon Beacons in 20 or 30 minutes. Buses to Newport
hourly, via Pontypool.


Schools 
Primaries: the town's Blaenavon Heritage VC is "good", says Estyn.
Secondaries: the nearest are Abersychan Comprehensive
("unsatisfactory") one way and Brynmawr Foundation ("adequate") the
other.


Hang out at... 
In town, the Rifleman's Arms, or Coffee & Cards. The Drum & Monkey,
between Brynmawr and Abergavenny, is perfect. Over the hill to food
mecca Abergavenny for posh grub.


Where to buy 
The town is your almost archetypal Welsh mining streetscape of
ruler-straight stone or rendered terraces stepping uphill,
interspersed with mining institutes and Baptist chapels. Much of it
is well restored. There are 1930s to 60s semis and terraces, posh
suburbans and plenty of new builds. Detacheds and town houses,
£200,000-£350,000. Terraces and cottages, £70,000-£160,000. Rentals:
a three-bed house, £500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bed detached Victorian, needing modernisation, £190,000, with
Davis & Sons, via rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Sylvia Lewis 
"A very friendly town with incredible history and a great community
feel. This is Wales, so we do get weather, but when the sun's out,
the scenery is spectacular."

Emma Whittington 
"The cafe at the Heritage Centre does a brilliant Sunday roast. A
lack of restaurants in the town generally, though."


Live in Blaenafon? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9 May.


Comments

Its better than that! Move, in mooch around, start a business!
Bargain prices and a warm welcome, try the Lamb and Fox, Rhymney
Brewery, Queen Victoria. Best views, local (10 feet away) beer and
idiosyncratic amiable lunacy!

Or if you'd like to stay in Blaenavon to eat then Butterflies Bar &
Kitchen is open Tuesday - Sunday.

We are featured in the good food guide, Eating Out Wales magazine,
Voice Magazine and have won a certificate of excellence for the last
7 years on TripAdvisor.

There are also other lovely options to eat in the town.

Also the Drum & Monkey was closed and bulldozed two years ago to make
room for the dual carriageway between Abergavenny and Brynmawr.

Times are hard in print journalism these days - you don't think Tom
is paid to actually visit these towns, eat in their restaurants and
drink in the local pubs do you? I get the feeling that most of these
articles are put together after 30 mins Googling a few local estate
agents on a Friday evening and a quick check on the Ofsted website.
If you could list the "other lovely options" then it would seem like
your contribution is less loaded, as lovely as Butterflies is I am
sure.

 

