Let's move to Rhayader & the Elan valley, Powys: sublime natural
beauty

Don't come for mod cons or fleshpots. Come for reflective quiet and
red kites

Elan valley, Powys

Elan valley, Powys.


What's going for it? 
"Follow the artists", canny home hunters always say, "they're always
a step ahead." I beg to differ. Follow the monks. Monks, after all,
were the original downshifters. Tired of the hullabaloo and poor
work-pray balance of 14th-century life (and who wouldn't be?), they
had a knack of rooting out the most delightful and away-from-it-all
spots on God's Earth. Spots so lovely, one would be quite content to
spend the rest of one's life there without being tempted back to
medieval Sodoms or Gomorrahs. Spots like Rhayader and the Elan
valley. The landscape round here is crisscrossed by monks' trods,
holy motorways of commerce and communication between mid-Wales abbeys
like Strata Florida. Centuries on, you can see the attraction of the
"Welsh Lake District". Don't come for mod cons or fleshpots. Come for
reflective quiet and sublime natural beauty. Come for red kites.
Though judging from the wholefood shops, organic farms and high per
capita pub ratio hereabouts, it's more craft beer spelt-eaters than
spiritual gurus the valley's attracting these days.


The case against 
Wet: bring gills. Converging trunk roads can turn Rhayader into
Piccadilly Circus (ish).


Well connected? 
Of course not. There are buses every couple of hours to Builth Wells
(45 minutes), Llandrindod Wells (17) and beyond to Aberystwyth. A car
would be handy: it's 20 minutes to Llandrindod Wells and its train
station; an hour to Aberystwyth and the coast.


Schools 
Primaries: Rhayader CiW is "adequate", says Estyn, though has "good"
prospects for improvement; nearby Newbridge-on-Wye CiW is "good".
Secondaries: the nearest, Llandrindod High, is "unsatisfactory", says
Estyn.


Hang out at... 
Ty Morgans rules the roost. The Crown Inn is cute as a button, while,
out of town, the Triangle Inn is splendid in fine weather.


Where to buy 
Rhayader itself is neat and tidy and pretty, all grey stone
Victorians or Georgians, town houses and cottages, huddled round the
sweet little clock tower at the crossroads. Beyond, the countryside
contains fairly remote and thinly populated villages; look out for
nice stone farmhouses, and an awful lot of bungalows. Large detacheds
and town houses, £400,000-£550,000. Detacheds and smaller town
houses, £140,000-£400,000. Semis, £130,000-£200,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£150,000.


Bargain of the week 
Six-bedroom Victorian home, with a former shop on the ground floor,
£169,000, with clareevansandco.co.uk.


From the streets
Pippa Boss 
"The best walking, wildlife, mountain biking and dark skies in Wales."

Ric Johnson 
"No Michelin stars, but we do have more pubs per head of population
than any other UK town. If you don't like rain, go east."

Daniel Butler 
"Spectacularly beautiful and incredibly overlooked, the valley is an
oasis."


Do you live in The Isle of Portland, Dorset? Join the debate below.


Live in Crediton, Devon? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 14 March.


 

