Let's move to Ilford, east London: 'One of today's boomtowns'

As inner London becomes supergentrified, it's suburbs such as this
that are left for the likes of you and me

Ilford, east London

Ilford: 'It's not a beauty.'


What's going for it? 
Ilford's attraction is not immediate. I rise past it most weeks on
the North Circular; you might be in any outer London suburb, Kingston
or Kingsbury, Bromley or Barnet. If you squint hard (health and
safety warning: not when you're driving), you could even be in Los
Angeles. Maybe. Look, Ilford has its moments. Indeed, as central
London becomes supergentrified with artisan chocolate boutiques,
suburbs such as Ilford are left for the likes of you and me, with the
cosmopolitan diversity we once used to seek in the hubbub of the
city. These are today's boomtowns, filled with young professionals,
here not least because of Crossrail - aka the Elizabeth line. Sure,
Ilford is fat on chainstores, but look past TK Maxx and Wilko and
you'll find wonderful green pockets such as Valentines Park, ace
south Asian grocers and Turkish grills, and ooh, a Percy Ingle. A
Percy Ingle always makes a good place great.


The case against 
It's as if a giant toddler tipped out its building blocks on to the
Essex borders.


Well connected? 
Very. Trains: every few minutes to Liverpool Street (16-21 minutes)
and, the other way, to Brentwood (13); Crossrail should get you to
Liverpool Street in 17 minutes, Farringdon in 19 and Bond Street or
Shenfield in 24. Driving: the North Circular skirts by, and you're
not far from the A12 and A13 for escaping the Smoke.


Schools 
Primaries: many "good", Ofsted says, with Loxford, Cleveland Road,
Seven Kings and Christchurch "outstanding". Secondaries: Loxford,
Valentines High, Seven Kings, Isaac Newton Academy and Chadwell Heath
Academy all "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
The wonderful veggie Indian, Saravanaa Bhavan. Or the Gardener's
Cottage Cafe in Valentines Park.


Where to buy 
Outside the town centre, it's a sea of late Victorians, Edwardians
and 1920s terraces, semis and a few detacheds. Fanciest is in north
Ilford, around Cranbrook, and towards Valentines Park; I rather like
the little Garden City Estate. West around Parkway and Egerton
Gardens, too. Detacheds, £550,000-£900,000. Semis, £400,000-£800,000.
Three-bed terraces, £350,000-£550,000. Flats: two-beds,
£200,000-£400,000; one-bed, £170,000-£300,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
£700-£1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bedroom end-of-terrace, near Valentines Park, needs updating,
£485,000, with arbonandmiller.com.


From the streets

Tom Vining 
"Working in the creative industries, we have fast access to
Shoreditch while living in a nice environment with good houses. It's
still a little rough around the edges."

Mili Acharya 
"A diverse place, but the growing density of new-build flats is
making it overcrowded. The high street's a bit faded."


Do you live in Ilford? Join the debate below.


Live in Aylsham, Norfolk? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 30 May.


Comments

Nope.

Ilford doesn't have a good reputation and isn't a nice area. Half a
million pounds for a tatty terraced house and a better than average
chance of getting stabbed. Hmmm, I'll sleep on it thanks.

Mili is a master of understatement. Poor Tom sounds either desperate
or deluded. Until they emigrated, we had some friends who lived in
Ilford. So I know the place quite well. The only good thing about
them moving away was the sudden dawning that I'd never have to go to
Ilford again.

I can see it gentrifying when Crossrail finally comes, though.

By gentrifying I mean 'improving'. A bit.

 

