Let's move to Scarborough, North Yorkshire: 'Where seasiding began'

It has it all - donkey rides, ice-cream sundaes, fish and chips,
penny slots and a miniature railway

Scarborough, North Yorkshire

Scarborough, North Yorkshire: 'What could possibly improve it?'


What's going for it? 
I'll warn you: I'm saving Scarborough for me. It's mine, all mine.
You can keep your Costa Brava and all of that palaver. This, where
seasiding began in the 17th century, has all I require in life
balanced beautifully in the perfect resort recipe: one measure donkey
rides to two parts ice-cream sundaes, a dash of kiss-me-quick, a
sprinkling of eccentricity (those daily mini naval battles on the
lake in Peasholm Park, for starters), a generous helping of fish and
chips (cooked in dripping, natch), penny slots, funiculars (I love a
funicular) and a miniature railway, a dash (but only a dash) of
decline. I could, believe me, go on. What could possibly improve it?
Well the locals are giving it a try. The spa's revived, the new
Alpamare waterpark is one of the fanciest in the UK (with an infinity
pool - in Scarborough!), and the newly reinvented 1930s open-air
theatre welcomes the Beach Boys this summer. Back to their roots, you
might say. Hope they wrap up warm. Next on the wish list? Wes
Anderson buys the Grand Hotel. I can dream.


The case against 
Out of the way. Even York's a bit of a schlep. The mooted demolition
of the fabulous Futurist Theatre on the front: depressing.


Well connected? 
Trains: Hull (1 hr 25 mins), Leeds (74 mins), York (48 mins).
Driving: York in 70 mins, the A1M 10 minutes further, Middlesbrough
or Hull in 80 mins, though the A64 gets clogged.


Schools 
Primaries: Newby and Scalby, Barrowcliff, St Peter's RC, Northstead
Community, Gladstone Road, Friarage Community, St Martin's CofE and
Wheatcroft are "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Scalby and St
Augustine's RC are "good".


Hang out at... 
You'll find me at the perfectly preserved Harbour Bar, with a
knickerbocker glory in my hand. Scarborough is also home to one of
the best Italian restaurants in the country: Lanterna.


Where to buy 
The old town, by the castle, has 18th to 19th century town houses and
The rest has a fabulous range of town houses, semis and detacheds,
from high Victorian to the 1940s. South Bay is poshest, around South
Cliff Gardens, with Weaponness Park the pièce de résistance. North
Bay is cheaper, but there are fine villas and town houses near
Peasholm Park. Further out, try Scalby and West Ayton. Detacheds and
town houses, £160,000-£900,000. Semis, £90,000-£350,000. Terraces and
cottages, £80,000-£250,000. Flats, £40,000-£350,000. Rentals: one-bed
flat, £250-£500pcm; three-bed house, £550-£750pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A town house in the old town, £130,000 with cphproperty.co.uk.


From the streets

Pamela Glanville 
"Scarborough's great for urban walking. Zigzag paths join the beach
with the clifftops, in both North and South Bays. In the tourist
season, you can finish your walk with a funicular ride back to your
car on the Esplanade."

Matthew Martin 
"Eat Me Cafe behind the Stephen Joseph theatre (another gem): try the
chips."


Live in Scarborough? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 24 January.


Comments

Wot? Has nobody been on yet to say 'we don't want no Bluddy Lunduners
cumin up ere and ruining the place' ?

Not much work and it's full or Northern, working class people... They
won't like it anyway.

That's why we voted 63% Leave :)

Here in Sunny Scarbados...We have a predominately Conservative
Cabinet and Council, advised by 'already proven Corrupt Officers'
(see Ben Marriott Whitewash Whistle-Blower Case), who are hell bent
on destroying our heritage and buildings of historic significance
(see Futurist Theatre, one of many in recent years), for financial
and personal gain (see heavy Tory donator Flamingoland/Gibb and
Preferred Bidders and Contractors). To which the Scarborough
Residents recently marched en Mass to the Town Hall and also
currently circulating is a 2,000+ strong petition for a Vote of No
Confidence against the Cabinet... so sleepy, pleasant Scarborough is
currently experiencing some high season with the Residents here
having drawn a line in the Sands... great place to live if we
eventually manage get rid of the Corruption/Undemocratic Process and
down right lying/cheating Council and their Officers.

Comforting to know that corruption is as live and well in the UK as
everywhere else.

Scarborough is not the place to live, work or play... the below web
site is a good resource to explain why...

Happy reading.


