Let's move to Whitby, North Yorkshire: it's the real deal

It's quite possibly the best place I have ever been


Whitby: 'Lovely tackiness.'

Whitby: 'Lovely tackiness.'


What's going for it? 

You do know, don't you, that when I write these columns, I don't
always want to actually move to the places? Is that like me pulling
back the curtain on the Wizard of Oz? Whitby is the real deal. I
really want to move to Whitby. Really really really really. If only
there was a market demand for middle-aged architectural historians
with a love of Kate Bush and Kraftwerk at the Whitby jobcentre. This
town is close to my heart. Quite possibly the best place I have ever
been, so don't you lot be mean about it in the online comments. Why?
Behold, my list. Red pantiles. The best fish and chips (see below). A
lighthouse in the shape of a gigantic classical column! The
north-eastishness of it. The fact that it points towards Norway. Old
lanes. Lovely tackiness. The moors. The most wonderful of beaches. Oh,
crikey, St Mary's church! I could go on. Go on then. Dracula, the
Goths in autumn, ooh, and that old sweet shop on...


The case against 

If I must. It really is quite an effort to get to, unless you live in
Scarborough. But sometimes the best things require a little effort.
Pricier than its surroundings.


Well connected? 

Not its forte. Trains: at least there's a station, though three hours
to York is a bit of a joke; otherwise, a beautiful journey through the
moors several times a day to Middlesbrough (90 minutes). Driving:
Scarborough 40 minutes; Middlesbrough an hour; York 90 minutes.


Schools 

Primaries: West Cliff, Stakesby Community, Airy Hill Community, St
Hilda's RC, Ruswarp CofE, East Whitby are "good", says Ofsted.
Secondaries: Caedmon College is "good".


Hang out at...

Magpie, Magpie, Magpie. Everyone says Magpie is the best for fish and
chips, and it is good. But everyone else knows Quayside is better.


Where to buy 

The old town, its terraces clinging to both sides of the banks of the
Esk, is sardined full of delightful stone cottages and town houses,
some dating back to the 16th century. Up the hill to the north-west is
the more seasidey West Cliff, with 18th- and 19th-century town houses
and terraces; North Promenade along the cliff top. Large detacheds and
town houses, £300,000-£800,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£190,000-£300,000. Semis, £140,000-£300,000. Terraces and
cottages, £130,000-£220,000. Flats, £90,000-£400,000. Rentals: not
much - a one-bed flat, £400-£500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A magnificent four-bed semi in need of an update. £155,000, with
jacksonspropertyservice.co.uk.


From the streets

David Vanstone 
"Rusty Shears on Silver Street, the first person in 15 years to make a
success of this courtyard cafe. Homemade food and cakes, quirky art,
and a fascinating range of gins."

Sheila Cowley 
"Wonderful beaches."

Carol Olivier 
"The Fuzzy Dog bakery in Flowergate: a bakery for dogs."



Live in Whitby? Join the debate below

Do you live in Lichfield? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 December.

 