Let's move to Newport, Isle of Wight: 'Its quaint alleys hide jewels'

There's plenty to discover, with a vibrant arts centre, an exciting
new restaurant and eccentric attractions

Newport, Isle of Wight: 'The apparently ordinary on Wight is rarely
that.'

Newport, Isle of Wight: 'The apparently ordinary on Wight is rarely
that.'


What's going for it? 
There are ups and downs to living on a small island. The ups? You
have to really want to live on one, so spots like the Isle of Wight
attract the intrepid and the eccentric. Like Queen Victoria, who came
here to escape the hordes so she could play "normal life" at Osborne,
her suburban house on steroids. The apparently ordinary on Wight is
rarely that. Take its capital, Newport. On the face of it, this is a
humdrum town of Prezzos and Carphone Warehouses, where the height of
civic excitement is the opening this year of the new Asda. But its
quaint alleys hide jewels like Robert Thompson's new restaurant, the
fabulous Quay arts centre (how many galleries hold kids events by Rob
da Bank?) and the Isle of Wight Postal Museum, a collection of
paraphernalia accumulated by one Wight eccentric, including "the
infamous Rhyl station bracket box". Be still, my beating heart.


The case against 
Problems peculiar to islands, such as the cost and effort to get
there, impact on local economics and services. See Newport's loss of
Bestival to Dorset this year, though the Isle of Wight festival still
reigns.


Well connected? 
A decent bus network, and trains from Ryde to Shanklin. Driving: most
places are 20-40 mins away, but the roads clog in summer. Ferries: on
foot from Ryde to Southsea (10 mins), Ryde to Portsmouth (22 mins),
and West Cowes to Southampton (25 mins); by car from Yarmouth to
Lymington (40 mins), Fishbourne to Portsmouth (45 mins), and East
Cowes to Southampton (1hr).


Schools 
Primaries: Carisbrooke CofE, Hunnyhill, Summerfields, Barton are all
"good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Christ the King is best, rated
"good".


Hang out at... 
Thompson's, the latest venture from Wight's gastro king, Robert
Thompson.


Where to buy 
Newport, being farthest from the sea, is the most affordable spot
(and the sea is never that far away). It has a typical market town
layout, with Victorians and Edwardians embracing the centre, and nice
suburbans south and west, heading out of town. The prettiest area is
the historic Carisbrooke, near the castle, around Castle Street,
Carisbrooke Road and Carisbrooke High Street. Detacheds and town
houses, £200,000-£800,000. Semis, £150,000-£300,000. Terraces and
cottages, £120,000-£350,000. Flats, £70,000-£200,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £400-£525pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£700-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
A four-bedroom Georgian town house in the town centre, £154,950, with
marvins.co.uk.


From the streets

John Rhodes 
"The Quay arts centre is a hive of activity for all things artistic,
crafty and musical, with a terrific cafe/restaurant/theatre at its
hub."

Fiona Sims 
"Newport is a bustling market town with an ace bakery and cafe called
the Island Bakers. Worst bits: confusing road layout and too many
shops needing a makeover."


Do you live in the Isle of Wight? If so, join the debate below.


Live in Great Torrington and the Torridge Valley, Devon? Do you have
a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 31 January.


Comments

Did the writer visit Newport I.W? Quote 'a bustling market town' -
more like half empty other than chain stores such as McDonald's,
Poundland and Boots. The high street is dying.

Also no mention of the exorbitant ferry costs, high deprivation
statistics and a failing education system (Island schools are some to
the worst performing in the UK)? Low wages and few skilled job
opportunities are problematic also.

Just how I would describe it you forgot the countless bookmakers,
charity shops and the new bright house, as well as the hoards of
unemployed disenfranchised youth and single parents, it did used to
be a thriving market town when I was a kid

Many, many middle class people there.

Many middle class pensioners. But otherwise mostly poor children,
young people and families.


 

