Let's move to Arundel, West Sussex: land of turrets and tea rooms

No, this is not Frozen's Arendelle. But it's an easy mistake to make

Arundel, West Sussex

Arundel, West Sussex: ‘Too perfect.'


What's going for it? 

Arundel or Arendelle? Sometimes it's hard to tell them apart. Both fairytale towns, with romantic skylines, turreted castles and gothic twiddles. Both dominated by benevolent if powerful rulers: King Agnarr and Queen Iduna of the Ancient House of Frozen, or the Dukes of Norfolk, whose castle and Catholic cathedral loom over Arundel. There's no escaping the Norfolks here. They have even given the town its own saint, St Philip Howard, whose Tudor bones are enshrined within the cathedral. Arundel feels like a tiny kingdom unto itself, marooned in the Sussex water meadows, supported by an export economy dominated, through its bric-a-brac shops and tea rooms, by the often overlooked antique goods and Victoria sponge sectors. All it lacks to complete the comparison are trolls, Nordic mountains, ice-shooting princesses and a deal with Disney. But I'm sure the current duke is working on that.


The case against 

Too perfect. Too little. Too quaint. Too expensive. Too aristocratic. Let it go, Tom.


Well connected? 

Trains: on the line from London Victoria (half-hourly, 90 minutes) to Bognor (half-hourly, 18 minutes), via Gatwick (half-hourly, 55); Chichester 25 minutes, half-hourly, and Worthing 30, half-hourly with a well-timed change. Driving: Chichester is 20 minutes with a fair wind; 15 gets you to the beach at Littlehampton or Climping. Brighton or Portsmouth are 45-60 minutes away, though you'll be a slave to the trafficky A27.


Schools 

Primaries: Arundel CofE and St Philip's Catholic are "good", says Ofsted. No secondaries: the nearest decent one is St Philip Howard's Catholic in Barnham, which is "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Town House, where Elsa would dine. Sven would drink at the Black Rabbit.


Where to buy 

You can do the town in half a morning – it's that small. The old town is stuffed with lovely homes from every period, especially Georgian, with a few Arts and Crafts lovelies thrown in for good measure. Excellent Victorian flint cottages, too. Normal (and cheaper) homes on the edge, such as the suburbs between Torton Hill Road and Ford Road. Large detacheds and town houses, £500,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and smaller town houses, £350,000-£500,000. Semis, £275,000-£650,000. Terraces and cottages, £250,000-£450,000. Flats, £550,000. Little for rent: a two-bedroom cottage might be £1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

The closest you'll get is a three-bedroom postwar semi, £299,995 with clarkesestates.co.uk.


From the streets

Gaye Barns 
"Bad things: traffic, tourists, no decent shops. Inadequate public transport – you must have a car to live here. Southern rail. Good things: walks, and the sea is nearby."

Simon Wootton 
"The Kings Arms – lovely old pub."

Bernadette Stokoe 
"It's like living on the set of a 19th-century costume drama. Stultifying."



Live in Arundel? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Dollis Hill, north London? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 September.
 