Let's move to Brockley, south-east London

It feels like London used to feel, only with decent coffee


Brockley, south-east London: 'It has a lovely Saturday market.'

Brockley, south-east London: 'It has a lovely Saturday market.'
Photograph:


What's going for it?
I like Brockley. Gentrification advances, but has yet to overwhelm
the place. Duck down the odd back alley, squint and you might have
slipped down a wormhole to 1978 when it was full of sociology
students from Goldsmiths, bohemians and the scent of wacky baccy and
rosebay willow herb. A glance in an estate agent's window might break
the spell, but the geography of hills, valleys and crisscrossing
railway lines is complex enough to keep hidden wormholes to a past
long disappeared in inner London, like a wee nature reserve off
terraced streets, or Hilly Fields park, its stone circle glowering
over London's thrusting skyline, the glorious Rivoli Ballroom, and
the shaggy mews of overgrown flora behind the town houses on Wickham
Road. It feels like London used to feel, only with decent coffee. And
a lovely Saturday market. The past wasn't always so great.


The case against
The centre has no centre, just a gigantic knot of roads and railways.
Quite a few ratruns in this age of Waze.


Well connected?
Trains: four or five an hour to London Bridge (12-14mins);
half-hourly to London Victoria (40 mins); overground south to Croydon
(22 mins) and north to Shoreditch High Street (18 mins) and beyond.
Driving: the A2 is a slog, but one has to endure it to leave London
(30 mins); central London is a 30-45 min drive.


Schools
Primaries: several rated "good", with Haberdashers' Aske's Hatcham
Temple Grove Free, John Stainer Community and Beecroft Garden
"outstanding". Secondaries: Haberdashers' Aske's Hatcham College,
Harris Girls' Academy, Prendergast and St Thomas the Apostle Catholic
are all "outstanding".


Hang out at…
The queue for Mike & Ollie's at the market. Or jostle with buggies
and babes at Arlo & Moe's. And you can't beat Meze Mangal grills.


Where to buy
Almost entirely Victorian. The lovely, leafy conservation area around
Wickham, Tresillian and Breakspears roads has large town houses,
mostly subdivided. Slightly cheaper on the Lewisham side. A fair few
do-er-uppers. Large town houses, £950,000-£1.3m. Semis,
£700,000-£950,000. Terraces, £600,000-£920,000. Flats: three
bedrooms, £450,000-£650,000; two, £300,000-£575,000; one,
£275,000-£430,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £900-£1,500pcm; a
three-bed house, £1,700-£2,500pcm.


Bargain of the week
Three-bed terrace, needs modernising, £575,000, with your-move.co.uk.


From the streets

Adam Walker
"The Orchard: relaxed restaurant/bar/cafe that's perfect for working
with a coffee, getting out of the house with a baby, cocktails or
dinner."

Hannah Hislop
"Brockley suffers from awful aircraft noise, as it's where planes
converge on their final approach to Heathrow."


Live in Brockley? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 1 August.


Comments

Having looked at the bargain of the week I can report that it is no
bargain.

Yes lol that did make me chuckle, if you look harder you can find a
cheap pad with a pool for a bargain basement 1.5 million in the same
area

It's not even in Brockley.

Many middle class people there now sadly.

"Sadly"? Snob.

Many middle class people there now sadly because they wanted to be
north of the river, or at least not this far south, perhaps.

 

