Let's move to Helensburgh, Argyll & Bute: 'The air seems to sparkle'

I'm surprised more artists haven't settled here, but a quick eye on
local history shows they were beaten to it by Johnny Posh

The beach, walkway and sea at Helensburgh.

The beach, walkway and sea at Helensburgh.


What's going for it? 

There's no escaping the waters in Helensburgh. They're in front of
you (the Clyde), to the side (Gare Loch) and behind (Loch Lomond). So
much liquid does something funny to the light - the air seems to
sparkle, while the brooding landscape of smoky, blue-green hills
bleeds into the sea like watercolour flicked from a brush. I'm
surprised more artists haven't settled here, but local history shows
they were beaten to it by Johnny Posh. Helensburgh was only magicked
into existence in the late 18th century when Sir James Colquhoun
bought the land and willed a town to appear, named after his wife,
Lady Helen (of the notorious Sutherlands). Glasgow's 1% moved in soon
after, escaping the noxious fumes of the city. You still have to pay
through the nose for its sparkling air; Helensburgh remains one of
Scotland's wealthiest towns, although it's far too genteel to say so.
If it were a few hundred miles south, it'd be all air kisses and
poodle parlours, but that's the sign of real wealth - discretion.


The case against 

Not cheap. And not for those who hanker after hullabaloo: it's all
cherry blossom and villas round here. You don't mind having a large
number of nuclear weapons on your doorstep, do you? Faslane submarine
base makes this either the safest, or most dangerous, spot in the
country.


Well connected? 

Two stations: Helensburgh Central has two trains an hour to Glasgow
(41-46 mins); Helensburgh Upper has a few trains a day to Glasgow (45
mins), Oban (2 hours 20 mins) and Fort William (3 hours). Driving:
45-50 mins to Glasgow.


Schools 

Primaries: John Logie Baird and St Joseph's Catholic are "good";
Colgrain, Hermitage and Rhu are mostly "very good". Secondaries:
Hermitage Academy is mostly "satisfactory".


Hang out at... 

The tearoom at Charles Rennie Mackintosh's beautiful Hill House.


Where to buy 

It's mostly a late Victorian and Edwardian affair, on a grid of wide,
genteel streets. Close to the Sinclair Street spine and along the
waterfront, you'll find denser town houses and cottages. Detacheds
are the mainstay, though, from plum waterfront villas to mansions in
the Upper West Side, towards Hill House, and east to Henry Bell
Street, many divided into flats. Detacheds and town houses,
£150,000-£650,000. Terraces and cottages, £120,000-£150,000. Flats,
£60,000-£400,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £450-£600pcm; a
three-bed house, £650-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A two-bed flat in a traditional red, sandstone tenement building,
£89,950, clydeproperty.co.uk.


From the streets

Carol Hayden 
"We just moved here from the West Midlands to be near the sea and
hills. Very friendly; sunsets over the Clyde; the Tower cinema in an
old church; being able to walk out of our front door and up 300
metres for views across Scotland."

Jenny Dalrymple 
"Delicious home baking at Ardardan, a walled garden centre by the
Clyde."


Live in Helensburgh? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20 June.

 

