Let's move to Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex: it confounds expectations

It has a reputation as a gentle resort for retirees, but underneath
stirs a radical heart


Bexhill-on-Sea: 'Don't expect Brighton or Gomorrah.'

Bexhill-on-Sea: 'Don't expect Brighton or Gomorrah.'


What's going for it? 

I often (OK, not that often) wonder what Bob Marley made of Bexhill.
Legend has it Marley put on his first UK gig here in 1972, at a
Bexhill Lions club benefit concert to raise funds for a local swimming
pool. That's Bexhill for you. It confounds expectations. It has a
reputation as a gentle resort for retirees. And it is. But underneath
stirs a radical heart. It put on Britain's first car race, in 1902,
had a socialist mayor in the 1930s and was a glamorous retreat for
aristocrats and stars (Fanny Cradock and Johnnie!). And on the front
sits the gleaming 30s De La Warr Pavilion (where Marley played), an
avant-garde architectural curveball as unlikely as finding a Picasso
in Nuneaton, and still a pioneer of the cutting edge. Bexhill's latest
about-turn, from the fancy look of its latest homes, is to rebrand
itself as a kind of South Downs Malibu. Stranger things have happened.
Usually in Bexhill.


The case against 

Still mostly a place of model railway shops and secondhand booksellers
(ie my kinda town), so, apart from its racier moments, don't expect
Brighton or Gomorrah.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Brighton (about an hour) hourly-ish; Hastings (10 mins);
Eastbourne (15-22 mins), Ashford (54 mins); London (just under two
hours). Driving: the evil that is the A259 passes through, but it is,
alas, your only hope; Hastings 20 mins, Eastbourne 30 mins, Brighton
an hour.


Schools 

Primaries: All Saints CofE, Glenleigh Park, St Mary Magdalene
Catholic, Chantry Community, King Offa and Little Common are all
"good", says Ofsted, with St Peter & St Paul CofE "outstanding".
Secondaries: Bexhill Academy is "good", with St Richard's Catholic
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

Heartened to see Di Paolo's ice-cream parlour still going strong.
Afternoon tea (or, go on, cocktails) at the Pavilion: hard to beat.


Where to buy 

The seventh Earl De La Warr magicked Bexhill from hilltop village to
select resort in the late 19th century, so most of the town is late
Victorian, Edwardian to 1930s. The old village has pretty cottages and
Georgians. Large detacheds and town houses, £450,000-£2m. Detacheds
and smaller town houses, £275,000-£450,000. Semis,
£210,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages, £175,000-£350,000.
Flats, £90,000-£425,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £550-£700pcm; a
three-bed house, £875-£1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Delightful four-bed weather-boarded cottage in the Old Town,
£335,000, with freemanforman.co.uk.


From the streets

Elly Gibson 
"Warm, friendly people. Lovely two-mile stretch of coastline with a
promenade perfect for walking and cycling. Close to Hastings, Rye,
Battle and other lovely places."

Michael Brown 
"Contrary to popular belief, Bexhill is not where old people go to
retire. That's Eastbourne; Bexhill is where their parents live."



Live in Bexhill? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Louth, Lincolnshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Monday 8 January.



Comments

Unfortunately, Gaboogle lives here, the middle class bastard!


Away, you beat me to it! We'll have to make our own fun!

Far too many middle class old people.

Why was Bob Marley middle class?

Why give De La Warr Pavilion such a middle class name, you posho bastards?

Christ, he still posted his comment! Look down there.

I used to visit Bexhill every year at the same time that the airshow
was taking part in Eastbourne up the road. I have seen the place
transformed from a sleepy outpost with zimmer frames on sale in the
secondhand shops, run down shops, and restaurants that served you a
good portions for a fraction of the London prices. But then it
suddenly changed and prices in my favourite restaurant increased
whilst the portions shrank. At the same time the traffic has increased
dramatically, parking is now costly from once being free just s few
years ago . So now I just brave it into Eastbourne where there is more
life for the same cost.

Parking is completely free on the seafront for the best part of two
miles. The main shopping streets have free two hour parking. The town
has at least 25 excellent restaurants and it's pretty easy to find an
excellent lunch for under a tenner. The town has many interesting
independent shops and doesn't have any chains of coffee shops. Having
lived in Hastings, Eastbourne and Bexhill, I would recommend Bexhill
as a great place to live and great place to visit.

Lived there for 6 months some years ago, loved the sea walks. In the
Summer when the tide is out once you are off the shingle beach you can
walk for miles towards Eastbourne and just enjoy the air, the sea sand
and scenery . There used to be a good deli and in those days Hastings
/ Eastbourne were only minutes away by rail. The Bus Journey though
longer to Eastbourne is certainly worth a trip with many jump off
points worth discovering.

