Let's move to Dollis Hill, north-west London: 'It could have been
Silicon Hill'

Research labs once lined the North Circular, but now this is a
cosmopolitan suburb with wonderful views and a lovely park

Dollis Hill, north-west London

Dollis Hill: 'It's dreaming about what might have been.'


What's going for it?

When I'm bored, I like to imagine another fate for Dollis Hill. Today,
it's a synonym for suburbia, the hill striped with 1920s semis, the
tube station sucking in and belching out its daily diet of commuters;
but it's a cosmopolitan kind of suburb, and those semis soon filled
with aspirant Jewish emigres from the East End. Dollis Hill coulda
been a contender. It could have been Silicon, er, Hill. In its heyday,
when research labs lined the North Circular, the Colossus computer, of
code-breaking fame, and Ernie the computer for premium bonds, were
built in its Post Office Research Station. (Yes, there was a Post
Office Research Station. I feel an Ealing comedy coming on.) Had
global fortunes not turned the way they did, Dollis Hill might have
had its own Steve Jobs or Bill Gates. Instead, they're probably
pushing the grandkids around Gladstone Park, dreaming about what might
have been.


The case against 

Suburban ennui. The lovely Gladstone Park aside, there's not much to
it, just a parade of newsagents and offies by the station and endless
avenues.


Well connected? 

Trains: Dollis Hill is on the Jubilee line, with central London 15
minutes away. Driving: not far from the North Circular and M1; a
45-minute drive into central London for the brave.


Schools 

Primaries: Gladstone Park, St Mary Magdalen's Catholic and Avigdor
Hirsch Torah Temimah are all "good", Ofsted says, with Convent of
Jesus and Mary Catholic Infant and Our Lady of Grace Catholic
"outstanding". Secondaries: the Crest Academy and Menorah High for
Girls are both "good".


Hang out at...

The Stables Cafe in Gladstone Park: great cakes and glorious views.


Where to buy 

The, ahem, "old town" hugs the tube station, with lovely leafy roads
like Dewsbury, lined with red-brick Edwardians. But it's mostly a
1920s affair, with wide roads of stately semis such as Kendal Road and
Dollis Hill Lane fronting the park, and Park Avenue, plus a nice grid
around Olive Road. More expensive south and east towards Willesden
Green and Cricklewood, cheaper north to the North Circular. Not that
many flats. Detacheds, £900,000-£2m. Semis, £650,000-£2m. Terraces
and cottages, £520,000-£1.5m. Flats, £400,000-£650,000. Rentals:
one-bed flat, £1,000-£1,400pcm; three-bed house, £1,800-£2,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Roomy, four-bedroom 1920s detached on Dollis Hill Lane, in need of
modernisation, £740,000, with hoopersestateagents.co.uk.


From the streets

Megan and Will Clark 
"Quiet, leafy and village-like, with a wonderful sense of community.
Con: lack of a decent pub on our doorstep - you need to walk to
Willesden Green, or hop in an Uber to Kensal Rise."

Fiona Jones 
"Twice a year you can visit Churchill's underground bunker, one of
Dollis Hill's biggest secrets."


Live in Dollis Hill? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Hereford? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 10 October.

 