Let's move to the Isle of Portland, Dorset: 'It has its fair share of
oddity'

There's a peculiar air to this rock at the end of Chesil Beach, best
known for the stone used in buildings all over the world

Isle of Portland, Dorset: 'It's buffeted by weather.'

Isle of Portland, Dorset: 'It's buffeted by weather.'


What's going for it? 
You come across bits of Portland in the most unlikely of places. Like
the UN headquarters in Manhattan, St Paul's Cathedral or the bank on
my high street. Portland stone, prized for its searing whiteness, has
been used for centuries to build the most illustrious of
architecture. Half of London is covered in it. Which, if you follow
the thought to its logical conclusion, means that half of Portland is
not. The place is pockmarked with quarries, the lingering sense of
something missing adding a peculiar air to a place which already has
its fair share of oddity. The position of this gigantic, 500ft-high
rock, sticking out into the Channel, with a skein of pebbles
connecting it to the mainland, means its streets are bathed in an
end-of-the-universe light, as if perched on the prow of a ship. Its
quiet small towns, with their dusty, bleached stone cottages, seem,
if you squint, plucked from a corner of the Mediterranean. There's
one way in and one way out, unless you're handy with a sail. And you
share the few square miles with inmates at HM Prison Portland. Not
put off? Then the Isle, my strange friend, is all yours.


The case against 
Buffeted by weather. Isolation and general weirdness: not for
everyone. I miss trees (a precious commodity on this blasted isle).


Well connected? 
Obviously not. Buses every 10 minutes or so to Weymouth, whence there
are two trains an hour to Dorchester (11 mins) and Bournemouth (50-60
mins), and at least one to London Waterloo (160-190 mins). Driving:
30 mins to Dorchester and the A35, 75 to Bournemouth.


Schools 
Primaries: St George's Community is "good", Ofsted says, while Isle
of Portland Aldridge Community Academy (primary and secondary) is
"inadequate".


Hang out at... 
The Cove House Inn, hard on the seafront, is the very model of a
maritime pub.


Where to buy 
Fortuneswell is the main town, and the oldest, with stretches of
18th-century cottages, but mostly 19th century, with some nice stone
town houses and terraces. Some suburbans. Otherwise it's quiet Weston
and Easton, or Southwell. Great views. And, aside from the odd brick
street, mostly stone. Off the back of the Olympics (Weymouth hosted
London 2012's sailing events) someone has attempted luxury
apartments. Detacheds and town houses, £240,000-£550,000. Terraces
and cottages, £120,000-£250,000. Flats, £100,000-£240,000.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bed detached house; currently two separate properties. £375,000
with redhouseproperty.co.uk.


From the streets

Roy Mackenzie 
"The Cove House Inn is a delight in fine weather and awesome in a
westerly gale."

Fiona Thompson 
"Best swimming and diving on the south coast off Chesil Beach.
Portland Bill is wild in winter, like the Med in summer. Great crab
sandwiches at the Lobster Pot. Wonderful walks, brilliant
bird-watching, enticing property prices."


Live in Portland? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 25 April.


Comments

You can't talk about Portland without mentioning that you're not
allowed to say the word 'rabbit' there.

I know. Caused all sorts of problems when we visited Portland branch
of Ann Summers.

Why can't you say rabbit? I urgently need to know

The place is pockmarked with quarries, the lingering sense of
something missing adding a peculiar air to a place which already has
its fair share of oddity... It sounds like the perfect location for
the next Shia LaBeouf art performance.


 

