Petworth and Pulborough, West Sussex: straight out of Miss Marple

There are tile-covered cottages, porches draped in roses, enough
wisteria to fill the Albert Hall and I swear I glimpsed the
reincarnation of Joan Hickson

Petworth, West Sussex: 'Expensive.'

Petworth, West Sussex: 'Expensive. But you expected that, didn't you?'


What's going for it? 
Was it the charming assistant at Hennings wine merchants? The
shelf-stacker in the topographical section at the bookshop? I'm still
hunting for Colonel Mustard and Professor Plum, but there are plenty
of plummy-voiced antiques dealers in these towns to go on my list of
suspects; let alone the rum fellows I imagine conduct their affairs
behind the high walls of the illustrious stately home that run
through Petworth like the Berlin Wall. These neighbouring towns are
straight out of central casting for Miss Marple: tile-covered
cottages, porches draped in roses, enough wisteria to fill the Albert
Hall and I swear I glimpsed the reincarnation of Joan Hickson (still
the definitive Jane for me), picking up a korma in Meghdoot's
("Authentic Indian Cuisine Since 1950"). Petworth lives in the shadow
of The House and its Titians and Turners. Having the railway station,
though, Pulborough is the more worldly of the two, the kind of place
I imagine lived in, in Agatha Christie's day, by brassy secretaries
with a taste for jazz and romantic dalliances with aged wealthy
widowers who should know better.


The case against 
Expensive. But you expected that, didn't you? Too lovely for their
own good. Coach parties. The looming walls of the house do rather
make one feel like a peasant.


Well connected? 
Trains: half-hourly to Horsham (16 minutes) and Bognor Regis, to
change for Chichester one way and Brighton the other; Gatwick (42
minutes) and London Victoria (76). Driving: 15 to the A27, 25 to the
coast, 45 to Gatwick.


Schools 
Primaries: St Mary's CofE and Fittleworth CofE are "good", Ofsted
says. Secondaries: the "outstanding" Weald and Midhurst Rother
College.


Hang out at... 
Agatha Christie would approve of the Angel in Petworth, with its
inglenooks, medieval floorboards and characterful locals (all
potential suspects).


Where to buy 
Wisteria-ed stone cottages, Georgian town houses, 18th-century
farmhouses, mills, lots of estates with land and gabled old houses
that have seen a thing or two in their time. You won't want for
beautiful property here. At a price. Large detacheds and town houses,
£700,000-£2.5m. Detacheds and smaller town houses, £400,000-£700,000.
Semis, £275,000-£500,000. Terraces and cottages, £250,000-£400,000.
Rentals: a few; three-bed house, £1,150-£2,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 
If you can call it that. A delightful, 10-bedroom former railway
station in Petworth; £1.4m with Chesworths (I know; but I couldn't
resist).


From the streets

Helen Dobson 

"Hang out at the RSPB's Pulborough Brooks nature reserve: a
well-stocked shop and a cafe with tables overlooking the reserve and
the Arun Valley."

Sue Goddard 
"As well as Petworth House, visit Parham House and gardens, near
Storrington, one of the country's finest Elizabethan manors."


Do you live in Petworth and Pulborough? Join the debate below


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 28 March.


Comments

Beautiful part of Sussex but I imagine that a lot of villages and
towns around there have populations that resemble the Conservative
front bench!

I'd rather that than resembling the inmates of Feltham young
offenders institute.

Oh I don't know.

If you're running out of places to visit, consider Horncastle
(Lincolnshire) and Kirkby Lonsdale (Cumbria).

 

