Let's move to Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland: it's delightful

This town is the most fought-over in Europe - and it has the walls to
prove it

Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland

Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland: 'This is the frontier town.'


What's going for it?

Walls and borders are so 2017, sadly, thanks to Trump, Brexit and the
world's current miseries. There has never been any escaping them in
Berwick, mind you. This is the frontier town, the most fought-over in
Europe, scrapped over by the English and the Scots, and it has the
town walls to prove it. Elizabeth I built them (not herself, obvs),
with her eye on the Scots' Auld Alliance with the French. The Union of
the Crowns rendered them superfluous a few decades later, although
people have long memories round here; the Scottish Borders tourist
board offered £8,000 for the place in 2002 and Berwick might have
become a border town once more, had the Scottish referendum turned out
differently. All that back and forth has left this beautiful, stern,
pragmatic place a muddied patch. The townsfolk's accent hovers between
Borders and Northumbrian burr, and, trivia geeks, Berwick Rangers are
the only English football team who play in a Scottish league. Fact.


The case against 

A little isolated, so it's a good job it's so delightful. I suspect
the economy could do with more people staying, fewer passing through.


Well connected? 

Trains: twice-hourly to Edinburgh Waverley (40-49 mins); hourly,
sometimes twice-hourly, to Newcastle (45-50 mins). Driving: Edinburgh
and Newcastle 75 mins; 40 mins to Kelso; 25 mins to Coldstream.


Schools 

Primaries: Berwick St Mary's C of E First, Berwick Middle, Holy
Trinity C of E First, Tweedmouth West First and Spittal Community
First, are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Berwick Academy,
alas, "requires improvement".


Hang out at...

The Curfew, a delightful micropub.


Where to buy 

Inside those hefty walls is a beautiful town, a little stony and
stern, but full of 18th- and 19th-century architecture, centred on the
gentrifying Bridge Street and Hide Hill. Ravensdowne is delightful.
Just outside the walls are old stone terraces near the station around
Brucegate and town houses on the water at Pier Road. For suburbia
(why?) and beaches (ah!), head south of the Tweed to Tweedmouth and
Spittal. Large detacheds and town houses, £350,000-£750,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £225,000-£350,000. Semis,
£85,000-£260,000. Terraces and cottages, £75,000-£250,000. Flats,
£70,000-£175,000. Few rentals: one-bed, maybe £400pcm; a three-bed
house, £500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Seven-bedroom Georgian town house, former B&B, needs work; £280,000
with aitchisons.co.



From the streets

Rob Lambourn 
"The finest Elizabethan ramparts in Europe, lovely Georgian
architecture and an excellent weekly traditional music session at the
totally unspoilt Pilot Inn."

Nolan Dalrymple 
"The High Street leaves a bit to be desired, but West Street and
Bridge Street are lovely, with great independent shops."


Live in Berwick-upon-Tweed? Join the debate below

Do you live in Stamford, Lincolnshire? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 17 October.

 