Let's move to Hither Green, London: 'Good schools, train links and
parks'

It's not cheap, but the lesser of all local property price evils

Hither Green, London

'Hither Green is one of those plum breeding grounds for Londoners
priced out of Peckham.' Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian


What's going for it? 
You'll often find me red-faced in Manor House Gardens, striding the
circuit with a pushchair, shushing at any noise-emitting entity who
dares come close. Hither Green is one of my prime
get-the-kid-to‑sleep routes. It combines, in one handy neighbourhood,
everything me and the nipper need: preprandial children's library,
postprandial ice-cream at the gardens' cafe, an ace playground with
that secret tree that all the kids climb, and an endless supply of
fellow parents with whom to exchange sleep-deprived-but-knowing looks
and emergency nappies, should the proverbial hit the hand drier. For,
yes, there is a nice public loo, too. I am very much not alone.
Hither Green is one of those plum breeding grounds for Londoners
priced out of Peckham, gentrified out of Greenwich. Good schools;
good train links; lovely parks; not cheap, but the lesser of all
local property price evils; and ice-cream. Did I mention the
ice-cream? It's the little things, you see, that get parents through
the day.


The case against 
The neighbourhood is riven in two by the railway line, practically
(there are few crossing points, hence bad traffic) and in spirit.


Well connected? 
Trains: four an hour to London Cannon Street (19-21 minutes),
connecting with the overground at New Cross; up to six to Charing
Cross (21-27 minutes), many stopping at London Bridge. Driving: the
A2 and A20 get you to the M25 in 15-25 minutes; the South Circular
passes by to the south.


Schools 
Primaries: Trinity CofE, St Mary's Lewisham CofE and St Saviour's RC
are all "good", says Ofsted, with St Margaret's Lee CofE, Brindishe
Lee, Brindishe Green and Brindishe Manor "outstanding". Secondaries:
Trinity CofE is "good".


Hang out at... 
Pistachios In The Park, elbowing me in the queue for mint choc chip;
Archibald's for the best coffee.


Where to buy 
The neighbourhood is almost entirely composed of Victorian and
Edwardian terraces, with the odd stretch of semi, postwar or 1920s
infill. Poshest are the large semis on the avenues between Effingham
and Southbrook Roads; or the terraces between Manor House Gardens and
the station. Cheaper towards Lee and the South Circular. A fair few
doer-uppers. Semis, £1m-£1.4m. Terraces and cottages,
£450,000-£950,000. Flats: three beds, £400,000-£650,000; one bed,
£250,000-£380,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £900-£1,250pcm; three-bed
house, £1,500-£1,800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bed house with a decent garden, £600,000, with Winkworth.


From the streets

Dom Blower 
"A secondary school black hole."

Anna Nohr 
"The hipster cafe, You Don't Bring Me Flowers. As well as the Good
Hope cafe."

Laura Neuveglise 
"I didn't think community was possible in 21st-century London. I was
wrong."

Suszi Saunders 
"Prices have risen a lot, but still much more affordable than
neighbouring areas."


Do you live in Hither Green? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 7 March.


 

