Let's move to... Thetford, Norfolk: 'A rum old mix'

The streetscape fuses Stevenage surreally with Burnham Market -
flinty cuteness jumpcut with 50s council house


Thetford, Norfolk: 'It's a bit of a muddle.'

Thetford, Norfolk: 'It's a bit of a muddle.'


What's going for it? We've had Essex Man, Worcester Woman and the Man
on the Clapham Omnibus. But these days, if editors of newspapers and
broadcast news programmes want to hear "the voice of the people",
deepest, darkest Thetford seems to be where they dispatch their
journalists. This microcosm is seen to somehow embody the state of
the nation, a bundle of contradictions squished into one town. After
the second world war it became an overspill town for Londoners,
tripling its size. Listen hard and today you can still hear Cockney
inflections grafted on to Norfolk burrs; the streetscape fuses
Stevenage surreally with Burnham Market - flinty cuteness jumpcut
with 50s council house. Two decades of European migration for
agricultural work expanded the town further. Yes, it voted for
Brexit. There's a statue of Captain Mainwaring (much of Dad's Army
was filmed here). But Thetford was also home to Boudicca, gave birth
to Thomas Paine (though the radical didn't stay long) and voted in
Britain's first black mayor - in 1904! Told you, rum old mix.


The case against A bit of a muddle. Its postwar reimagining wasn't
entirely successful: the ringroad rudely interrupts medieval streets.
Its high streets are just keeping decline at bay. There have been
ethnic tensions in the past.


Well connected? Trains: twice hourly to Norwich (35-38 mins), hourly
to Cambridge (45 mins) or Peterborough (1hr). Driving: 45 mins to
Norwich or Cambridge, 1hr 30 mins to Peterborough.


Schools Primaries: Admirals and Redcastle are both "good", says
Ofsted, with Drake "outstanding". Secondaries: Thetford Academy is
"good".


Hang out at... Not the most gastronomic of spots, but the lovely
Mulberry keeps hunger at bay.


Where to buy There's a handsome historic centre, where it survives -
scuttle around Castle Street and Lane, Old Market Street, King
Street, Whitehart Street and Croxton Road for flinty cottages and
town houses. A thin layer of Victorian streets follows, and then the
wodge of postwar estates. For posh suburbia, look to Abbeygate, by
the priory ruins, Arlington Way, Nunnery Fields or the developments
around Rosecroft Way. Detacheds and town houses, £175,000-£450,000.
Semis, £140,000-£200,000. Terraces and cottages, £115,000-£175,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £450-600pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£750-£950pcm.


Bargain of the week A flint, one-bedroom terrace house close to the
centre, £120,000 with williamhbrown.co.uk.


From the streets

Sam Harvey 
"Don't miss the Dad's Army Museum and its ace cafe for retro treats."

Danny Watts 
"A buzzing market town with a twice-weekly market and Thetford forest
on the doorstep - for picnics, walks, and mountain bike trails. Try
Tall Orders for a good coffee. Norwich and Cambridge are a short
drive away."


Live in Thetford? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16 May.

 

