Let's move to Boscastle, Cornwall: fine views and fishermen's cottages

Forget the flood of 2004: this little town has lost none of its power
to delight

A row of white terraced cottages in Boscastle in Cornwall

Whitewashed cottages tumble down steep slopes.


What's going for it? 

Some places are synonymous with unhappy events. But as time passes,
the notoriety usually fades. (Who now remembers the 19th-century Penge
Murders? Exactly.) Boscastle has recovered from the devastating flash
flood that poured into the valley - gosh, was it really 13 years
ago? No doubt the night of 16 August 2004 is still scoured on the
memories of locals, who have done a remarkable job of drying
themselves off and reinventing the community as a kind of green hub.
But in 100 years, perhaps Boscastle will be renowned again for its
remarkable beauty and peace, its lovely little fishing port and
harbour, its green hills sliced by cliffs into those classic Cornish
coves that so delighted Thomas Hardy. Here for his day job as an
architect, restoring St Juliot church in Lesnewth, one day the writer
saw A Pair Of Blue Eyes belonging to the rector's sister-in-law.
Reader, he married her.


The case against 

The usual Cornish caveats: tourists, emmets (like you and me),
unbalanced local economies, second homes, etc, etc.


Well connected? 

Not really its thing. Trains: not a chance. Driving: 15 minutes to
Camelford, 30 to Launceston or Bodmin (where the mainline train is),
45 to Padstow.


Schools 

Primaries: Boscastle Community, alas, "requires improvement", says
Ofsted, though "changes are happening for the better"; nearby
Otterham, though, and Tintagel are "good". The nearest secondary is
the "good" Sir James Smith's in Camelford.


Hang out at...

The cosy, crooked-roofed Harbour Light Tea Garden is pretty magical.
Boscastle Farm Shop cafe has enormous (and delicious) cakes and great
views of the coast.


Where to buy 

It's a small town-cum-village, really, and delightful to explore.
Think pretty whitewashed stone fishermen's cottages and terraces,
tumbling down steep slopes. In the hinterland, stone farmhouses and
barns. Large detacheds and town houses, £400,000-£550,000. Detacheds
and smaller town houses, £275,000-£400,000. Semis,
£250,000-£350,000. Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£275,000.
Rentals: not really, apart from holiday lets.


Bargain of the week 

You'll be hard pushed to find any bargains. A modern two-bed terrace
for £169,950 is as close as it gets. With bopproperty.com.


From the streets

Christine Elliott 
"A stunning location nestled between dramatic cliffs that can be
navigated by the coastal path in either direction. In spring the whole
trail smells of sweet gorse flowers."

Joan Gilham 
"Walk along the beautiful Valency valley: secluded, with the sound of
rushing water and birdsong. There's wildlife galore."


Live in Boscastle? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Frome, Somerset? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 3 October.


Comments

Dominated by upper middle class types.

Enough about your private life, what do you think about Boscastle?

 