Let's move to Beaconsfield, Bucks: 'It's stuck in a time warp'

A kind of Mayfair nestled in the Chiltern beechwoods

St Mary & All Saints Church in Old Beaconsfield.

St Mary & All Saints Church in Old Beaconsfield. Photograph: Alamy
Stock Photo


What's going for it? 

I could probably afford a three-bedroom detached town house round
I couldn't even afford a rabbit hutch in Beaconsfield's famous
Bekonscot Model Village, the oldest and definitely the cutest model
village in the world. A square inch or two in this neck of the woods
costs a pretty penny. "Stuck in a 1930s time warp," says Bekonscot's
blurb, which could just as well apply to the town outside which,
traffic congestion, availability of olives, and modish Farrow & Ball
paint schemes apart, has changed little since the era when everyone
knew their place, and that's exactly how they like it. Its unchanging
nature and proximity to Elstree, Pinewood and the bright lights of
the Smoke has long made it the perfect retreat for stars of stage and
screen, from Dirk Bogarde to, ahem, Dennis Waterman. It has that
immaculately groomed timelessness that only the poshest parts of the
country can afford these days, like a kind of Mayfair nestled in the
Chiltern beechwoods.


The case against... 

Not for the likes of you and me.


Well connected? 

Trains: two or three an hour to the delightful London Marylebone
(24-49 mins), a couple an hour to Bicester (28-37 mins), Banbury
(41-53 mins) and on to Birmingham. Driving: on the edge of the M40,
15 mins to High Wycombe or the M25 the other way, an hour to central
London.


Schools 

Primaries: Butlers Court and Holtspur are "good", says Ofsted, with
St Mary & All Saints CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: mixed
comprehensive the Beaconsfield school "requires improvement"; girls'
grammar Beaconsfield High is "outstanding". Boys who go to grammar
school are bussed to the Royal and John Hampden in High Wycombe.


Hang out at... 

The Old Tea House, with a toasted teacake and lashings of ginger
The Jolly Cricketers at nearby Seer Green is much lauded.


Where to buy 

A town of many parts. There's the model village, the new town (all
Victorian parades and Prezzos beside the railway station) and, my
favourite, the old town. Large detacheds and town houses, £1.2m-£4m.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £650,000-£1.2m. Semis,
£450,000-£1.2m. Terraces and cottages, £400,000-£575,000. Rentals: a
one-bed flat, £750-£1,200pcm; a three-bed house, £1,100-£2,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Hardly, but it's as good as we'll get. Pretty, listed two-bed cottage
in the old town, £395,000, with hunters.com.


From the streets

Josephine Rutherfoord 

"Pet hates: huge number of Chelsea tractors mainly driven by wealthy
mothers on private school runs; hysteria over the 11+ and obsession
over your child getting into grammar schools. Old Beaconsfield is
lovely."

James Murray 
"Bekonscot Model Village is great for kids: parts are Beaconsfield in
model form."


• Live in Beaconsfield? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13 June.


 

