Let's move to... Dorchester-on-Thames: 'A little utopia'

This Oxfordshire village, with wisteria-stewn cottages and water on
three sides, is cute as a dormouse

Dorchester-on-Thames, Oxfordshire

Dorchester-on-Thames, Oxfordshire: 'Not for lovers of fleshpots.'
Photograph: Alamy


What's going for it? 
Dorchester-on-Thames is one of those English villages that get me all
misty-eyed with patriotism, if only patriotism hadn't been hijacked
by the Kippers. Thanks to an illustrious history some time in the
seventh century when it was, briefly, capital of Mercia, it carries
itself with a certain grandeur. Its parish church is an abbey, it has
the confidence to hold its own annual English Music Festival and the
high street is lined with portly town houses, 17th-century mansions
and cottages strewn with wisteria that give it the air of a place
considerably bigger. These days, though, the stagecoaches, modern
life and hullabaloo that must once have coursed through the place
bypass it on the A4074 en route for Oxford. It is thus preserved as a
kingdom unto itself, water on three sides, including the magnificent
Hurst Water Meadow (it's more Thames-on-Dorchester than
Dorchester-on-Thames), a little utopia of untouched Englishness.


The case against 
Its glory days are long past. Not for lovers of fleshpots.


Well connected? 
Trains: Didcot is a 15-minute drive away, with regular trains to
London (45 minutes). Driving: half an hour to Oxford, 20 minutes to
the M40 or Abingdon.


Schools 
Primaries: hope you're CofE. Dorchester's St Birinus CofE is "good",
Ofsted says, as are nearby St Laurence CofE in Warborough, Long
Wittenham CofE and Clifton Hampden CofE. Secondaries: "good" locals
include Europa School, Wallingford School and, in Abingdon,
Fitzharrys or John Mason.


Hang out at... 
The beer garden of the Fleur de Lys on a warm summer evening with a
pint of foaming beer. Drooling at the very thought of it.


Where to buy 
It's small as a dormouse, and just as cute, all soft thatch,
It's had walk-on parts in Poirot and Midsomer Murders (of course it
has). So it's hard to go wrong, as long as you have the cash. The
outskirts offer sprawling former farmhouses and suburban Southforks
for those who like such things. Large detacheds and town houses:
£600,000-£1.2m. Detacheds and smaller town houses: £400,000-£600,000.
Semis: £250,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages: £250,000-£400,000.


Bargain of the week 
It's hardly the picturesque English rural dream, but this four-bed
1960s town house has space aplenty: £475,000 with JP Knight, via
rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets


Malcolm Airs 
"Hurst Water Meadow: bought by the village 20 years ago to save it
from development, and a wonderful amenity for fishing, walking and
wildlife."

Rob Ballantyne 
"Three (!) pubs to choose from, which is pretty good for a small
village. Gripes: not brilliantly connected by public transport."


Do you live in Dorchester-on-Thames? Join the debate below.


Live in Hove, East Sussex? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 6 June.


Comments

For the record, it's Dorchester-on-Thame, not Thames. Although it is
close to the River Thames (or Isis, if you insist), the river the
village is on is actually the River Thame. Easy mistake to make.

The article is correct; it's Dorchester-on-Thames (more commonly
Dorchester on Thames, without the hyphens).

And of course you are both correct. The village sits on the right
bank of the Thame but the Thames loops around it to the west. I
suppose they could have named it Dorchester on Thame, but it wouldn't
have quite the same cachet, and folks would be forever mis-spelling
or falsely correcting the name.

It is however next door to Berinsfield. A slightly less picturesque
village.

And beware of Dorchester North addresses. These are just the edge of
Berinsfield that isn't council owned.

Top tip. Ta.

 

