Let's move to Pwllheli and the Llyn Peninsula: a bastion of Welshness

This fabulous dangle of land, sandy bays and lush, juicy hills is
still one of the most Welsh-speaking parts of the country

Pwllheli beach.

Pwllheli beach, scene of Tom Dyckhoff's summer holidays as a boy.


What's going for it? 

Many things inexcusable today took place in the 1970s. Among them my
futile attempts as a small boy to pronounce Welsh words on our summer
holidays to the Llyn Peninsula. I am ashamed to say Puff-welly was as
good as it got. For which, citizens of Pwllheli, citizens of Wales, I
can only apologise. With the clarity of adulthood, I can not only
manage a decent Push-elly (that's vaguely right, isn't it, north Welsh
readers?), but I can see why Mum and Dad took us here. It's a long,
long way from St Albans, in every sense. Which is probably why the
Roman legions never quite quelled the locals (and the Normans didn't
do much better), leaving the Llyn a bastion of Welshness. Only the
intrepid (the pilgrims en route to their final resting place on
Bardsey Island; nature buffs searching for seals; surfers after the
perfect wave in Hell's Mouth) popped by. Today, this fabulous dangle
of land, sandy bays and lush, juicy hills is still one of the most
Welsh-speaking parts of the country - and I bet their tongues trip
easily over Pwllheli, Bwlchtocyn, Llanystumdwy, and make mincemeat of
Rhyd-y-gwystl.


The case against 

Earthquakes. Yes, really. It's quite second-homey, so if you do move,
please be sensitive to the culture and economy. Rain. Lots of it.
There's a reason it's so lush.


Well connected? 

Trains: a slow if beautiful service every two or three hours to
Porthmadog (22 mins) and then to Machynlleth (2hrs 20 mins). Driving:
half an hour from Pwllheli to Aberdaron at one end and Porthmadog the
other, 40 mins to Caernarfon and Harlech, 50 to Bangor.


Schools 

Primaries: among many good, Estyn says, Morfa Nefyn is "excellent".
Secondaries: Glan Y Mor and Botwnnog are both "good".


Hang out at...

Ty Coch pub in Porthdinllaen ticks all the boxes. For posh, Porth
Tocyn hotel in Abersoch and Plas Bodegroes in Pwllheli.


Where to buy 

Stone and white render are the vernacular. The south coast is pricier
and busier - Aberdaron is the local Malibu; the north coast,
especially around Nefyn, just as delightful. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £500,000-£1.4m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£150,000-£500,000. Semis, £130,000-£450,000. Terraces and
cottages, £80,000-£250,000. Flats, £100,000-£250,000. Rentals: not
many; a one-bed flat, £400pcm; a three-bed house, £800pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom period detached; needs renovation; £75,000, with
huwtudor.co.uk.


From the streets

Mike Carran 
"Beautiful beaches. My favourite haunt is Tre'r Ceiri on top of Yr
Eifl ('The Rivals' in English), said to be the most extensive and
complete Iron Age village in the UK - only seven miles from
Pwllheli. Apart from the mind-blowing history, the views are stunning:
well worth the 350m climb from the car park."



Live in Pwllheli and the Llyn Peninsula? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Finnieston, Glasgow? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 19
December.

