Let's move to Diss, Norfolk: a glimpse of the East Anglian Dream

There's much to admire... but many admirers

Diss, Norfolk: 'A tad humdrum.'

Diss, Norfolk: 'A tad humdrum.'


What's going for it? 

I know what you want. Pink-painted, 18th-century cottage. Living-room
with beams and inglenooks. Pantiles on the roof, maybe thatch.
Paddocks out back. Ooh, and can I have a stream, too? What you'll
probably get, though, is redbrick, 1980s semi. Garage on the side.
Heritage lantern by the front door. Straight outta Brookside. Bag of
John Innes on the drive, waiting for the weekend. Demand for the East
Anglian Dream, you see, outstrips supply. Diss can supply pink-painted
cottages, for a price, dotted about the pretty old town and its
hinterland; this is, after all, where the great nature writer Roger
Deakin escaped to his Walnut Tree Farm, and where that other great
nature writer Richard Mabey has put down roots. But since the place
became a commuter hub, it's wrapped itself in semis and cul-de-sacs.
It makes for an odd mix: the old, the new, and the newold - or
oldnew - regurgitating the past as out-of-town retail opportunities,
where you can pick up a skinny latte on the rush-hour schlep to
Norwich.


The case against 

A tad humdrum; you'll have to travel for culture and vice. Cars, cars,
cars.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: two or three an hour to Norwich (20 minutes); twice
hourly to Ipswich (25 minutes), Colchester (40 minutes) and London
Liverpool Street (90 minutes). Driving: 45 minutes to Norwich, Ipswich
and Bury St Edmunds, an hour to the coast.


Schools 

Primaries: Roydon, Palgrave CofE, Scole CofE and Diss Infants are all
"good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Diss High is "good".


Hang out at...

The Crown at Burston. Beams? Tick. Roaring fire? Tick. Beer garden?
Tick. Norfolk Pub of the Year 2016? Tick.


Where to buy 

The old centre has cottages and town houses galore, though there's
high demand. Check out Fair Green by the river for more period
property. Otherwise it's the suburbs, with nice detacheds and semis
along Croft Lane and Roydon Road especially. Nearby hamlets like
Palgrave, Suston, Scole, Burston and Dickleburgh are lovely, too.
Large detacheds and town houses, £400,000-£750,000. Detacheds and
smaller town houses, £250,000-£400,000. Semis, £200,000-£450,000.
Terraces and cottages, £120,000-£275,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £450pcm; a three-bedroom house, £750pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Large four-bedroom, detached Victorian house, close to the town
centre, £315,000, with muskermcintyre.co.uk.


From the streets

Duncan Livingstone 
"Great rail connection to London; being the first stop from Norwich,
there are always plenty of seats."

Jean Grocott 
"The newly refurbished Corn Hall. The 'yards' are full of good
independent shops."

Ann Thwaite 
"Ignore the hideous Victoria Road and the conjunction of Tesco and
Morrisons."



Live in Diss? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Lincoln? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 12 September

 