Let's move to the Torridge valley, Devon: 'It's lush'

These rolling hills, thatched pubs and gay towns are a long way from
the nearest turmeric latte

The Torridge valley: 'You need resilience out here.'

The Torridge valley: 'You need resilience out here.'


What's going for it? 
We're not in Kansas any more, Toto. This is north Devon, deeeeeep
Devon. Far, far, far from the nearest motorway. Far, far, far from
the nearest turmeric latte. You need resilience out here. Survival
skills. Your role model? Tarka the Otter. His creator, author Henry
Williamson, moved here from London to track the tough lives of local
otters. Poor old Tarka suffers endless iniquities (the loss of his
mum, the death of his first mate, the trials of being a young dad,
fleeing hunts and facing up to his old foe, Deadlock the dog) but
nothing can break his spirit.

The Torridge valley is a little less harsh for the 21st-century
human. Think lush hills, thatched pubs and gay towns, such as Great
Torrington, bedecked in bunting. But you'll still need your wits
about you: with mod cons so distant, Torridge denizens have learned
to be resourceful. This is one of the UK's hot spots for volunteering
and community fundraising, keeping the likes of the Plough arts
centre and cinema going strong.


The case against 
You're hardly in the thick of things, economically. Are you a
"metropolitan elite"? Then it's probably not for you.


Well connected? 
Not really. The nearest train station is 11 miles away in Barnstaple,
with slow trains to Exeter. Driving: it's 20 minutes to the coast or
Barnstaple, an hour at least to Exeter or the M5, and 40 minutes to
the A30 at Okehampton.


Schools 
Primaries: among many "good" ones, Ofsted says, Beaford, Highampton
and Black Torrington CofE are "outstanding". Secondaries: Great
Torrington and Holsworthy Community College are both "good".


Hang out at... 
Huddle round the fire at the Coach & Horses in Buckland Brewer, or
have a homemade bite at Browns deli in Great Torrington.


Where to buy 
Great Torrington is the metropolis, high above the river, and its
long, straggly streets are packed with stone-fronted or whitewashed
terraces, town houses and cottages. The western hinterland towards
the coast is most prized, with deep valleys dotted with late-Georgian
country houses, farmhouses, stone barn conversions and long, low
cottages. It gets cheaper the farther up the valley, and away from
civilisation, you go. Large detacheds and town houses, £350,000-£1m.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £180,000-£350,000. Semis,
£150,000-£280,000. Terraces and cottages, £120,000-£250,000.


Bargain of the week 
Four-bedroom listed town house in Great Torrington, needs updating,
£180,000, with webbers.co.uk.


From the streets

Moira Brewer 
"Great Torrington's a friendly town, home to the Torrington Cavaliers
and many other voluntary organisations. The Plough is a real asset."

Phil Topham 
"Stunning views and 350 acres of common. A relaxed but purposeful
feel."

Janet Sharp 
"No big supermarkets, but we don't need them."


Do you live in Great Torrington and the Torridge valley? Join the
debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 28 February.


Comments

Don't.

It's crap.

My ancestors migrated to London from hete in the 1880s in the agri
depression


 

