Let's move to Herne Bay, Kent: classic caffs and crazy golf

Sandwiched between Whitstable and Margate is the seaside that time
forgot

Herne Bay, Kent

Herne Bay, Kent: 'Occasionally melancholic.'


What's going for it? 

Funny how some places change by the hour - blink, and the Poundland's
been magicked into a slam-poetry cafe - while others are the still,
immovable eye of the storm. I've been coming to Herne Bay for decades
and, OK, so the bandstand has been (nicely) restored, but little else
has changed. This seaside town still seems wedged in the age of
Charles Hawtrey and the three-day week. All the more surprising with
just a few hundred yards on one side dividing it from Whitstable,
which seems to sprout a biodynamic toddlerwear emporium every third
day, and a few miles on the other keeping Margate and its slam-poetry
cafes at bay. Don't get me wrong: Herne Bay could do with a few pounds
being spent in its caffs, but there's something heartening about a
place where the height of entertainment remains a round of crazy golf.


The case against 

Occasionally melancholic. A lack of decent bars.


Well connected? 

Trains: London St Pancras (one hour 23 minutes) and London Victoria
(one hour 35); Margate (15 minutes) and on to Dover and Folkestone;
and the other way, to Whitstable and Sittingbourne. Driving: you're on
the decent A229, so it's a half-hour to Margate or Canterbury.


Schools 

Primaries: Herne Bay Junior, Hampton and Briary are all "good", Ofsted
says, with Herne CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: Herne Bay High is
"good".


Hang out at...

The pizzas at A Casa Mia transported Marina O'Loughlin to Naples, but
my money's on a knickerbocker from classic caff Makcari's.


Where to buy 

There's a nugget of the old fishing village left around East Street,
but this is mostly a late-Victorian to 1930s affair. Surrounding the
old town is a wodge of terraces, townhouses and a nice line in chalets
hugging the seafront: the Whitstable side is the prime one; or the
east, on the avenues off Sea View and Reculver roads ("Beltinge
village"). Fine large detacheds or villas on the avenues back from the
Western Esplanade, plus nice suburbans on the routes out of town, such
as Canterbury or Whitstable Road. Check out the little village of
Herne, too, on the way to Canterbury. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£800,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£300,000-£450,000. Semis, £220,000-£370,000. Terraces and
cottages, £200,000-£340,000. Flats, £125,000-£300,000. Rentals: a
one-bed flat is £425-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house £950pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Large, five-bedroom terrace house near the front, shops and station,
£400,000, with kimberwoodward.co.uk.


From the streets

Steve Dixon-Smith 
"Beer Brothers off licence has local goodness (ales, cheese, bread)
behind a slightly dated exterior: Herne Bay in microcosm."

Christine Eburne 
"The sunsets are spectacular."

Alfie Billsberry 
"For a small town, there's a wealth of great restaurants. And it's
much, much prettier than Whitstable."



Live in Herne Bay? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Diss, Norfolk? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 August.

 