Let's move to Windsor & Eton, Berkshire: 'A metaphor for the nation'

Even the millionaires lining the Thames and the 1% at Eton know their
place beneath the royals at the castle

Windsor castle, Berkshire

Windsor, Berkshire: 'Royalty dominated even before William the
Conqueror's motte and bailey.'


What's going for it? 

At Let's move to... we like to press our faces up against the window,
peer into the sweet shop and see 'ow the ovver 'arf lives. It's a
strange kind of masochism. Windsor, Eton and, a few hundred metres
away (divided from the others by the M4), Slough are today almost a
geographical metaphor for the nation. The royalty (Windsor), the 1%
(Eton) and the rest of us (where do you think?). The addition of
Legoland in 1996 just tips the surrealism of this landscape over the
edge: boys in tailcoats, changing of the guards, and Star Wars
rendered 1:20 in tiny bricks. Think Ruritania, and you're halfway
there. Royalty dominated even before William the Conqueror's motte and
bailey; Old Windsor, downstream, was a favourite of Saxon kings. Now,
1,000 years later, millionaires (even the odd billionaire) line the
Thames; though the castle's Royal Standard flapping highest of all
makes sure even they know their place in the pecking order.


The case against 

What do you think? Wealth.


Well connected? 

Trains: half hourly from Windsor & Eton Riverside to London Waterloo
(58 minutes) via Staines (14) and Richmond (34); a spur from Windsor &
Eton Central goes to the mainline at Slough (six minutes) three times
an hour. Driving: with the M4 so close, Heathrow is 20-30 minutes, the
M25 10-15 and Reading 30; central London in an hour if the traffic's
good (at, say, 3am).


Schools 

Primaries: Hilltop First and St Edward's Catholic First "outstanding".
Secondaries: a tale of two genders - The Windsor Boys' "requires
improvement", Windsor Girls' is "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The pleasant Greene Oak at Oakley Green (trivia: it's run by Terry
Wogan's daughter).


Where to buy 

Windsor is all razzmatazz, grand restaurants, tourists and stucco
terraces; Eton, over the bridge, is more old money, antiques shops and
plummy voices. New money congregates on the private St Leonard's Hill.
Poshest of all is Old Windsor. Property runs the gamut from castles to
Victorian terraces. Clarence Road and around is full of lovely period
town houses; Park Street as close as you can get to HRH; Eton is more
impressive, though, architecturally. Normal homes abound in the
pleasant postwar estates in Dedworth and Clewer New Town, though even
they aren't cheap. Detacheds and town houses, £450,000-£5m plus.
Semis, £375,000-£2m. Terraces and cottages, £350,000-£1.4m. Flats,
£250,000-£1.5m. Rentals: I beg your pardon? Well, if you must. A
one-bed flat, £900-£1,500pcm; a three-bed house, £1,400-£2,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Don't be absurd.


From the streets

Ally Onions 
"Heidi bakery in Daniel department store serves delicious cakes. Lots
happening: night markets, annual horse show, picnics in the park. Eton
Natural History Museum is a gem."

Jon Parker 
"Walk from Windsor to Datchet along the river and pick up a train back
to Windsor and Eton Riverside. The views of the castle are great."



Do you live in Windsor & Eton? Join the debate below.

Live in Kelso, Roxburghshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 7 November.

