Let's move to Kelso, Roxburghshire: this is a mighty fine town

Every street is an architectural delight


Kelso from Millennium Viewpoint, Scottish borders 

Kelso: 'A lovely little place.'


What's going for it? 

I'm a sucker for a bit of Romanesque architecture. Even the prospect
of a half-ruined tower and a crumbled jamb is enough to drag me
several score miles off my beaten track. I'm easily distracted. And so
I come to Kelso. Like those in its neighbouring border market towns,
Kelso's abbey is a shadow of its 12th-century self, when it was the
richest, mightiest monastery in the region. But even the fragments
left behind still define the town, though the abbey has competition
these days. This is a mighty fine town, a lovely little place squished
where the rivers Tweed and Teviot say how d'you do. Every street is an
architectural delight. The town hall has grand columns leaping over
the cobbles on the Square. And the town has not one but two stately
homes in tow. If you think Mellerstain House is fancy-pantsy, have a
gawp at vast Floors Castle, possibly the turrety-est stately home in
the nation, and definitely not a castle. Those battlements couldn't
withstand the big bad wolf, let alone marauding Northumbrians across
the border.


The case against 

Not cheap for hereabouts.


Well connected? 

No trains, but there are several daily buses to Berwick-upon-Tweed
(one hour) and Jedburgh and Hawick, plus a few to Edinburgh (two
hours). Driving: half an hour to neighbours such as Melrose,
Galashiels and Coldstream, 40 mins to the coast and Berwick, and more
than an hour (depending on traffic) to central Edinburgh.


Schools 

Primaries: quality indicators for Edenside and Sprouston are "good";
for Broomlands mostly "good", Education Scotland says. Secondaries:
those for Kelso High are "good" or "very good".


Hang out at...

There's just one place you need to know about: the Cobbles. If you can
squeeze in.


Where to buy 

The town's lovely old stone farmhouses or manses attract the highest
prices. In town you can't put a foot wrong for fine stone town houses
and terraces, or little cottages tucked down alleys. Some nice views
over the river: check out Roxburgh Street heading to Floors Castle.
Lovely stone or white render/whitewash. The usual assortment of
suburbs and cul-de-sacs. Large detacheds and town houses,
£350,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£175,000-£350,000. Semis, £120,000-£300,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£180,000. Rentals - not much: a one-bed flat,
£375pcm; a three-bed house, £450-£500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A two-bed Victorian terrace, needing a bit of modernisation, yours for
£99,995, purplebricks.co.uk.


From the streets

Sharon Dalziel 
"Fine views of the river Tweed from Rennie Bridge; good local walks
past Junction Pool (one of the best for salmon fishing)."

Tony Reed 
"Kelso belies its size with a showground, rugby, cricket, tennis,
bowls and curling venues. Interesting independent shops set along
cobbled streets; the Contented Vine for sublime food."



Do you live in Kelso? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Beverley, East Riding, Yorkshire? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 12 December.


Comments

Let's move to... a doorstep that doesn't have spikes on it and a soup
kitchen nearby.

You'll have to look further afield to find that, in Europe or Asia.

With only one place to hang out, no trains, and a minimum 30 mins
drive to anywhere else, Kelso is a place for looking at, not living
in.

On the bright side you don't live there.

So you prefer to live in a place that is easy to get away from?

 