Let's move to Kingston upon Hull, Yorkshire: "It's glorious"

As well as excellent art, visitors to this year's UK City of Culture
will be rewarded with beautiful streets, a huge minster and wonderful
views over the Humber

Kingston upon Hull, cobbled street

Kingston upon Hull: 'The rest of the country has deigned to pop by this year while it is UK City of Culture.'


What's going for it? 

"It's never dull in Hull", says the mug I picked up at the museum.
Indeed, it isn't. But it's time we ditched the 'ull and revelled in
the polysyllabic glory of its proper name - Kiiiings-ston upon Hull.
For Hull was, and is, glorious. It's had - is having - rough times.
When JB Priestley popped by on his English Journey during the Great
Depression, he marvelled at its civic culture and prosperity.
Fast-forward 80 years and while the former is very much in evidence,
it could do with a hefty dose of the latter. The rest of the country
has deigned to pop by this year while it is UK City of Culture.
Visitors will see its minster, its beautiful (yes, beautiful) streets
and excellent art; they will pay their respects to Philip Larkin and
Throbbing Gristle; and stand on the banks of the Humber, marvelling at
the views. I just hope that, come 2018, when the limelight fades, this
wonderful place gets the future it deserves.


The case against 

A big city that needs investment to turn it around. The recent arrival
of Siemens is a boon, but social and economic stats are troubling.


Well connected? 

Trains: three an hour to Doncaster (50-70 mins); hourly to Leeds (an
hour) and Manchester (two hours); and an unforgivable 70 mins, every
two hours, to York; a great service to London (two hours 30 mins,
hourly). Driving: the coast in 40 mins; over an hour to York, Leeds
and Doncaster. My, Hull buses are good.


Schools 

Many good primaries; while Bricknell, Thoresby, Collingwood, Clifton
are "outstanding". Secondaries: The Boulevard Academy, Sirius Academy
West, Kelvin Hall and St Mary's Catholic are all "outstanding".


Hang out at...

With students and the hipperati on Newland or Princes Avenues. East
Park Chippy for a bag of chips and a patty sitting in the park. Or if
you're posh, 1884 on the marina is blooming good.


Where to buy 

Second world war bombing did for much of the inner-city housing, but
the old town around the minster is full of gems. Follow Beverley Road
north for in-demand areas such as Pearson Park and Princes Avenue.
Also around East Park, Pickering Park, Anlaby Park and the Garden
Village. Large detacheds and town houses, £300,000-£600,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £90,000-£300,000. Semis,
£70,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages, £40,000-£250,000. Flats,
£30,000-£220,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £275-£750pcm; a
three-bed house, £400-£800pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Lots. And lots of doer-uppers. I wouldn't say no to this three-bed
Victorian terrace, £170,000, with beercocks.com.


From the streets

Laura Martin 
"Best place to eat - Thieving Harrys. Great coffee at Two Gingers in
Paragon Arcade. Sunday afternoons are best spent by the marina."

Julie Marrow 
"The Maritime Museum is free, a beautiful building and well worth a
visit."

Jane Bennett-Powell 
"The huge minster and the square in front of it is like being in
Bruges."



Live in Kingston upon Hull? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Berwick-upon-Tweed? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 29 August.


Comments

That's a somewhat flattering choice of photograph.

What image would have been more representative?

One of Branshome would be more representative. Hull has some nice
areas but in general is pretty depressed along with most medium
towns/cities in the North. It's no Manchester, bless it.

Sports not too hot unless you're into Rugby League.

Most people in Hull are.

Hull 4 - London 0

 