Let's move to Hereford: 'Its heyday is yet to come'

This isolated city near the Welsh border has a fine bone structure and
hidden treasures

'Hereford has glimmers of revival.'

'Hereford has glimmers of revival.'


What's going for it?

There's a marvellous carving in Hereford Cathedral of actual pigs in
actual blankets. Pigs in blankets! I wish I could show it to you. I
mention this only to demonstrate that Hereford is a city that hides
many treasures. First, it is a city, although it does sometimes betray
a whiff of provincialism. Nonetheless, its relative isolation out
towards the Welsh border, and the independent character and wealth
that have grown over the centuries, have given the city a fine - if
not beautiful - bone structure of civic architecture in ruddy stone.
Recent decades, though, have not been quite so kind to Hereford: ring
roads, economic sagginess and ill-advised paving schemes or public
art, many attempts have been made to "improve" the city; they have
not. There are glimmers of revival, though, the barest inklings of an
understanding of its fine, unique character: the cattle it has bred
for centuries, say, or the hidden beauty of some of its streets.
Hereford's heyday, I feel, is yet to come.


The case against 

Distance (especially from the sea). Needs more confidence in itself.


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to Worcester (40 mins) and Birmingham (90); at least
hourly to Leominster (13), Ludlow (24), Shrewsbury (45-60) and
Abergavenny (22); Cardiff is just over an hour away. Driving: just
under an hour to Worcester, 90 minutes to Cardiff or Birmingham.


Schools 

Primaries: many good, and St Paul's CofE and Marlbrook are
"outstanding". Secondaries: less good, though Whitecross is "good".


Hang out at...

The beginnings of a culinary revival. Tandem Bakery is nice. Sensory &
Rye even nicer, despite calling itself an "urban eatery".


Where to buy 

There are some lovely streets of historic property (not all of which
have been turned into solicitors' offices) close to the cathedral.
They extend eastwards along the river cliffs to Hampton Park,
especially Hampton Park Road along the Wye. It's also worth looking
between Aylestone Hill and Ledbury Road for good semis and detacheds.
Plus Kings Acre Road out west. Fine Victorians and Edwardians. Large
detacheds and town houses, £350,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller
town houses, £200,000-£350,000. Semis, £140,000-£400,000. Terraces
and cottages, £120,000-£350,000. Flats, £85,000-£300,000. Rentals:
a one-bedroom flat, £400-£625pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£700-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A lovely interwar three-bed semi, needing modernisation, £175,000,
with connells.co.uk.


From the streets

Clare Stevens 
"Artisan burgers are big in this area of Hereford cattle: try the
Beefy Boys or Rule of Tum."

Tom Cutler 
"You're never more than 10 minutes from stunning countryside: the
Black Mountains to the west, sensational views to the east."

Ian Morris 
"Too remote for commuters, Hereford has a real identity and a lot
going on culturally."



Live in Hereford? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Bexhill, East Sussex? Do you have a favourite haunt or
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 28
November.
 