Let's move to Canvey Island, Essex: 'Britain's Mississippi delta'

A weird, intoxicating jumble of creeks, oil jetties, bungalows and
blues music

Canvey Island, Essex

Canvey Island, Essex: 'The weirdness won't be for all.


What's going for it?
Islands are magical. Step over the water and something weird happens,
as if normal rules have been suspended. What else could explain
Canvey Island? On paper, it shouldn't work. What, sunbathing next to
petrochemical plants? Why ever not? What, a mudflat metres below
water, mostly covered in detached houses, bungalows and mobile homes,
with a dash of 18th-century Dutch, a soupcon of 1930s modernism (the
Labworth cafe, the Monico pub, swoon), nature reserves of incredible
biodiversity, all to a soundtrack of proto-punk pub rock? Why ever
not? Julien Temple's rockumentary Oil City Confidential, about the
"best local band in the world", Dr Feelgood, proposed Canvey Island
as Britain's Mississippi delta, an intoxicating, romantic jumble of
creeks, oil jetties and blues music. Sounds improbable? Then you
haven't been. Nothing seems odd again after you cross the creek.


The case against
The weirdness won't be for all. Water, water everywhere... disaster
The defences built afterwards are sturdy, but for how long?
Congestion at rush hour.


Well connected?
Trains: Benfleet to London's Fenchurch Street (43-48 mins, every 10
minutes), via Barking and West Ham (for the tube); or to Southend (15
mins). Driving: you can reach the M25 or Southend in 30 mins.


Schools
Primaries: Lubbins Park, St Joseph's Catholic, William Read, St
Katherine's CofE and Northwick Park are all "good", says Ofsted, with
Canvey Junior "outstanding". Secondaries: Castle View and Cornelius
Vermuyden are both "good".


Hang out at…
Ove Arup's beautiful 1932 Labworth restaurant; or the Lobster Smack
for a touch of Magwitch with your pint and panini.


Where to buy
Almost entirely a postwar affair, with a bit of 1930s and a patch or
two of late Victorian. Bungalows, chalets and suburban detacheds
galore. Few terraces. The most desirable spots are, say, the avenues
off Furtherwick Road and Thorney Bay Road, and off the Western
Esplanade. Large detacheds and town houses, £500,000-£650,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £250,000-£500,000. Semis,
£250,000-£350,000. Terraces and cottages, £200,000-£300,000. Rentals:
not a vast amount; a one-bedroom flat, £700pcm; a three-bedroom
house, £1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week
A (very) quirky three-bedroom chalet, yours for £235,000 with
premierestates.org.uk.


From the streets

Phil Clark
"There's a bleak, quirky beauty to the place, especially the marshes
south of Benfleet station and Canvey Heights country park, with its
views over Hadleigh Ray. Lovers of kitsch will enjoy the long,
blue-painted seawall along the south-east coast, with its potted
palms and memorial benches. But it's not quite the Riviera."


Live in Canvey Island? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 25 July.


Comments

Let's move to Canvey Island, Essex: 'Britain's Mississippi delta'

But does it shine like a national guitar?

I don't think it has that many reflective surfaces to be honest

Gah! You beat me to it. It probably shines more like a Ford Escort.

The person who wrote this bizarre article knows nothing about the
Mississippi delta, or the blues.

You mean there's no local KKK chapter in Canvey?

And you clearly know nothing about the 60s and 70s Essex R'nB scene,
the Feelgoods' very entertaining self-mythologising, and the local
devotion to the blues.

 

