Let's move to Crediton, Devon: 'Its day will come again'

Once more important than neighbouring Exeter, this unpretentious town
has great views and affordable property

Crediton, Devon: 'The town still has a cocky confidence.'

Crediton, Devon: 'The town still has a cocky confidence.'


What's going for it? 
Little, I'm sure, did Crediton's citizens think, circa AD736, that
their town would serve as a commuter suburb for middle managers from
Exeter. Back then, before the Normans turned up, Crediton was the
head honcho round these parts, the bee's knees, with a bishop and
everything. Then some cleric bozo called Leofric decided he wanted to
move to Exeter to be with the cool kids, and ruined everything. Then
it was all Exeter, Exeter, Exeter for the next millennium and a bit.
Still, Crediton continued to thrive on wool and milk, splurging the
profits on conspicuous consumption like beautiful town houses and the
fabulous Church of the Holy Cross, a cathedral in all but name, to
thumb a nose at its upstart neighbour. The town still has a cocky
confidence that can only come from the knowledge that once upon a
time it was great and that, some day, when the time is right, when
Devon Armageddon threatens, when Exeter is on its knees, Crediton's
day will come again.


The case against 
You will love and hate the A377 in equal measure. There's nothing but
teeny villages between you and Exmoor, which fills your heart with
either joy or dread.


Well connected? 
Quite. It has the rare benefit (round these parts) of being on the
train: hourly to Exeter (11 minutes) and Barnstaple (1 hour).
Driving: 20 minutes to Exeter or the M5, half an hour to Dartmoor, 45
minutes to the coast. Exeter airport, for the UK and the rest of
Europe, is up the road.


Schools 
Primaries: Hayward's, Landscore and nearby Sandford are all "good",
says Ofsted. Secondaries: Queen Elizabeth's is "good".


Hang out at... 
The Crediton Coffee Company after a stroll round the fortnightly
farmers' market.


Where to buy 
Much of the town dates from after the 18th century, when a fire
devastated its streets. It's broadly split into the East Town and -
you got it - West Town, with creamy terraces, cottages, town houses
and snatches of thatch on their two steep hills. It's all "elevated
position" on the estate agents' particulars here: views are rightly
prized. For suburbans, look around Western Road. Large detacheds and
town houses, £350,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£200,000-£350,000. Semis, £180,000-£320,000. Terraces and cottages,
£130,000-£200,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £500pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £750-£850pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Roomy, three-bedroom 1960s town house, £187,500 with
cartergeering.com.


From the streets

Frank Gent 
"Unpretentious, good links to Exeter, reasonable property prices.
Hates: monocultural, small-minded people (safe Tory seat)."

Jo Little 
"An amazing independent bookshop run by the community. Great stock
and author events."

Sue Brown 
"Amazing primary schools, fabulous station (with free parking), great
arts centre."


Do you live in Crediton? Join the debate below.


Live in Ilford, east London? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 18 April.


Comments

A lovely part of the country, what will the teenagers do though? my
memories of holidays in the west country was seeing groups of teens
in the town or village centre gathering round drinking cider while
listening to grunge music!

smells like teen spirit - situation entirely normal.
whats your point?

I expect drugs are available there like anywhere else.


Hang out at... The Crediton Coffee Company after a stroll round the
fortnightly farmers' market.

Steady on

 


