Let's move to Streatham, south-west London: forget what you know

'Huge efforts have been made to reverse the reputation for crime
Streatham attracted in the 80s. It's worked'

Streatham, south-west London: 'The reality is amazing.'

Streatham, south-west London: 'The reality is amazing.'


What's going for it? 
Don't, don't, don't believe the hype. Or the opposite of hype,
whatever that is. Streatham has a reputation. But so what. The
reality is amazing. In the 1930s (geographically challenged) people
called it the "West End of south London". Streatham was glam. The
High Road is still lined with art deco mansion blocks, former
department stores and cinemas from the era of Clark Gable. This was
the main route to London's airport at Croydon and, flying being an
expensive affair back then, the glitterati purred through in their
Wolseleys en route for Deauville. You want more proof? Waitrose
opened its first supermarket here! Huge efforts have been made to
reverse the reputation for crime Streatham attracted in the 80s. It's
worked. The neighbourhood's golden ages have left it with homes high
on its hill that'd be the envy of Hampstead, but without the
snobbery.


The case against 
It has rather a large road running through it, and we can't do much
about that. Let's run with it. Turn it into a boulevard. Plant trees.


Well connected? 
Very. Trains: three stations connect you to central London: Streatham
Hill, Streatham and Streatham Common. Peckham, Croydon, Dulwich are
all easily reachable, too. Driving: you can reach the M25 in 40
minutes.


Schools 
Good. Primaries: many "good", Henry Cavendish, Dunraven, Immanuel and
St Andrew CofE, St Andrew's Catholic and Woodmansterne "outstanding".
Secondaries: St Joseph's College, Norbury Manor are "good", Dunraven,
Graveney, Bishop Thomas Grant Catholic "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
Spoilt for choice. I'm fond of the coffee at Boyce da Roca, the
Lebanese lunches at Beyrouths, doughnuts from Thompson deli and half
a pound of cod from Fish Tale fishmongers.


Where to buy 
Streatham is long and straggly, the High Road following a ridge and
roads falling down the valleys on either side. Homes are great; from
late Victorian Arts and Crafts through fabulous Edwardians to art
deco. Also mansion blocks on the High Road: noisy, but so elegant.
Poshest are plush roads close to Tooting Bec Common, followed by the
Streatham Vale is cheaper. Detacheds and town houses, £750,000-£3m.
Semis, £500,000-£2m. Terraces and cottages, £450,000- £1.25m. Flats:
£250,000-£800,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £800-£1,500pcm; three-bed
house, £1,500-£2,800pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Yes, I know it's £895,000. But it's a six-bedroom house. Needs
modernisation. With oaksestateagents.com.


From the streets

Stephen Adamson 
"Favourite haunt: Pratts & Payne - a scruffy new-style pub in an old
shop. Pet hate - the eternal traffic around St Leonard's church."

Caroline Kilgour 
"Brooks & Gao coffee house; Bravi Ragazzi pizza restaurant; and
Tooting Bec Common, a quiet space, lovely for walking."

Janet Abbott 
"Great local MP in Chuka Umunna."


Do you live in Streatham? Join the debate below.


Live in Kirkness?? and Orkney? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 17 January.


 

