Let's move to Cambridge: 'Ancient university and biotech boom town'

It has the Footlights, the Backs and Nine Lessons and Carols - plus
gargantuan science parks and property prices, thanks to the biotech
boom

Cambridge: 'A victim of its own success?'

Cambridge: 'A victim of its own success?'


What's going for it? 
Success doesn't always come in the form you might wish. Unlike the
more entitled, worldly Oxford, Cambridge has long had the air of an
ordinary market town that hit the jackpot and couldn't believe its
luck. It has had the last laugh, though. The signs of Cambridge's
astonishing new economic success come in the shape of gargantuan
science parks and property prices only just the right side of
London's. It has created a peculiar place. On the one hand there's
the Cambridge you think you know: university, Tom Sharpe, Footlights,
the Backs, the Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols, all of that
gubbins. On the other, money, money, money, as thousands pour into
the city hunting biotech jobs, nerd fame and geek fortune. The two
sides are in uneasy equilibrium. It can only end in tears. For now,
though, it makes for bizarre juxtapositions, the ancient jump-cut
with the futuristic, the provincial with the globalised, and old town
houses beside luxury apartment blocks bulging from any spare square
inch.


The case against 
A victim of its own success? Some growth lobbyists would have even
more, removing planning restrictions to turn Silicon Fen into Silicon
City. Expensive. I'd miss the sea. But then that's me.


Well connected? 
Very. Trains: four an hour to King's Cross (51-85 mins); two to
Liverpool Street (70-83 mins); one to Peterborough (49 mins) or
Norwich (80 mins). One day the Varsity Line will link it to Oxford
again. Driving: right on the M11; 45 mins to Stansted airport, 90
mins to central London.


Schools 
Primaries: Many "good", Ofsted says, with St Matthew's, the Spinney
and St Alban's Catholic "outstanding". Secondaries: North Cambridge
Academy, Chesterton Community College and Parkside are "good", with
St Bede's Inter-Church "outstanding".


Hang out at... 
You won't want for fancy restaurants, great pubs serving craft beer
and smart cafes. But my money's on a Chelsea bun at Fitzbillies.


Where to buy 
Don't be fussy. Get what you can. Chesterton is particularly prized
at the moment: lovely homes, plus a new station. Look around Jesus
Green, Midsummer Common and Mill Road. Trumpington, Grantchester and
Impington for those who find town too racy. Detacheds and town
houses, £450,000-£2.5m. Semis, £350,000-£1.5m. Terraces and cottages,
£300,000-£1m. Flats, £200,000-£800,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
£800-£1,250pcm; three-bed house, £1,200-£2,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Three-bed semi, needing modernisation, in a great spot with lots of
potential, £325,000, with haart.co.uk.


From the streets

Stephen Matthews 
"Pet hate: tourists and students who step into the road without
looking. Milton country park - excellent open-water swimming."

Martin Thompson 
"A tapestry of beautiful green spaces, enabling a cyclist or
pedestrian to traverse the city with the minimum of street contact -
just as well as our roads are heavily congested."


Live in Cambridge? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 27 June.


Comments

I'm looking at Berlin.

Good man! Somebody has to keep an eye on the Germans.

Yessssss!

I like it, prettier than Oxford

 

