Let's move to Ballycastle, County Antrim: 'It's all Game Of Thrones'

Do not double take if you spot armour-clad warriors in the queue at
the petrol station. They're used to warlords and sorcery round here

Ballycastle, County Antrim

Ballycastle, County Antrim: 'It's a little on the monochrome side.'


What's going for it? There are boat trips round here that promise
sightings of "the fictional Lordsport harbour on Pyke, the Iron
Islands (which is really Ballintoy harbour), where Theon Greyjoy was
welcomed home, and the beach where Theon was baptised and where the
pirate Salladhor Saan pledged his support for Stannis Baratheon."
Gobbledegook? Then you, like me, are among the precious few who have
never seen Game Of Thrones. For the rest of you... well, the Glens of
Antrim will seem terribly familiar. The landscape is all juicy green
valleys capped with bluffs as gruff and rough as Sean Bean's
epidermis. Do not double take if you spot armour-clad warriors in the
queue at the petrol station. They're used to warlords and sorcery
round here. CS Lewis grew up in these parts, honeymooned in the Glens
and often returned for holidays and Narnian inspiration. There is
something otherworldly about the place, though Ballycastle, with its
prim cottages and municipal borders, brings life back down to earth -
more Alan Bennett than George RR Martin.


The case against A little on the monochrome side. Get your
paintbrushes out! Small-town torpor.


Well connected? Trains: none come near. Driving: half an hour to
Coleraine, the nearest bigger town, half an hour south down the coast
to Cushendall and an hour or more to Larne. Just over an hour's
gorgeous drive to Belfast or Derry.


Schools Primaries: in Ballycastle, St Patrick's & St Brigid's,
Ballycastle Integrated and Gaelscoil an Chaistil are mostly "very
good", says Etini; outside, Glenann and St Mary's in Cushendall are
mostly "good", with Barnish mostly "very good". Secondaries:
Ballycastle High and Cross and Passion College are mostly "very
good".


Hang out at... The queue at Ursa Minor bakehouse; Morton's on the
harbour for fish and chips.


Where to buy There are handsome townhouses and cottages on the broad
front, and up Quay Road to Castle Street. Nice detacheds, semis and
villas along Beechwood or Cedar Avenue, and up Strandview. For
suburbans, try on and off Hillside and Moyarget Roads and to the east
by the golf course. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£250,000-£350,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£110,000-£250,000. Semis, £85,000-£150,000. Terraces and cottages,
£75,000-£110,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £300-£400pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £400-£600pcm.


Bargain of the week It could do with an update, but at £74,950 this
three-bedroom terrace is a steal; with mcafeeproperties.co.uk.


Let's move to Helensburgh, Argyll & Bute: 'The air seems to sparkle'


From the streets

Caroline Redmond 
"It's becoming a real foodie place - lots of crab, lobster, fish and
seaweed. The sourdough at Ursa Minor bakehouse."

Mary O'Driscoll 
"Lots of independent shops and restaurants, and two family-run
butchers. The heart of the Causeway coastal route, between Belfast
and Londonderry. Public transport is slow."


Live in Ballycastle and the Glens of Antrim? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, please email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 18 July.


Comments

15 hrs no comment, no Guardian readers in NI ?

They are probably too busy recovering from a night in the great pubs
or are on the beautiful beach or golf course.

Well this is my third comment on this thread in 10 minutes. Happy now?

Place to be!

 

