Let's move to Framplington, Suffolk: too good to be true

A pretty town offering right-minded left-minded folk refuge from a
world ruled by the orange-skinned? You couldn't make it up…

Framplington: this pretty town is under the radar Photograph: Alamy
Stock Photo


What's going for it? 
When you find milled flaxseeds and chia seeds next to each other on
the shelf of the local Spar, I think we can safely say we have found
our nirvana, don't you think? This is a tough time for lefties. The
once impossible relentlessly becomes the norm. So where can
right-minded left-minded folk go for a bit of R&R, where nobody will
out you to breitbart.com when you order hand-picked single-estate
Fairtrade olives at the pub, and where political correctness is just,
well, correct? Framplington, that's where. All eyes lately have been
on the People's Republics of Brighton, Bristol or Hackney as enclaves
for those a bit circumspect about the free market. Under the radar,
though, this pretty town has been quietly attracting escapees from
Britain's sprawling conurbations. Today the place has the knowingly
shaggy demeanour of a trustafarian, the Farrow & Ball of its Georgian
town houses tattooed with arch, Banksy-lite graffiti, its high street
weeded of all known chain stores. It all began, rumour has it, when
the local manor house and estate town was bought, in the spirit of
19th-century reformers such as Octavia Hill, by an anonymous
left-leaning sleb (there are whispers of JK Rowling, sniffs of George
Clooney) to create a kind of Babington House of the People. Who
knows? One thing's certain, though: the revolution starts here. In
the tea room. Over a slab of gluten-free carrot cake and a soy latte.


The case against 
Come on, you'd miss Nigel Farage, wouldn't you? Piers Morgan, surely?
What if you crave a dirty burger? Enforced allotment tending can be
back-breaking.


Well connected? 
On pedal power. If you must drive, only hybrids and electrics on
estate land, please.


Schools 
Primaries: the town's Clement Attlee Community is inevitably
"outstanding", Ofsted says. Its secondary, the Anthony Blair CofE,
"requires improvement".


Hang out at... 
The bar at the quaint old Peterloo with a craft beer, polishing your
halo, remembering the good old days.


Where to buy 
Buy? Who are you, the Candy brothers? There'll be no buying round
these parts, unless you are an anonymous, left-leaning sleb. Local
homes - all co-housing and communal, and all located on the moral
high ground, with fabulous views down one's nose at the inhabitants
beyond estate walls - are owned and let by the mysterious trust, but
with rent controls and lifetime tenures: one-bed flat, £100pcm;
three-bed house, £250pcm. In your dreams.


Bargain of the week 
Don't be a fool.


From the streets

Maurice Flintoff 
"We moved here last year. It's so calming not being angry all the
time. Thanks to the neighbourhood social media filters, you never
have to read Katie Hopkins' views again."

Jeanne Donaldson 
"A big shout-out for the Happy Lentil's bran muffins. Vegan,
Fairtrade, GM-free. So virtuous, you can forgive the tastelessness!"


Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 4 April.


Comments

FAKE NEWS!

Well played.



