Let's move to Hove, East Sussex: 'It attracts more young people than
anywhere in the country'

If you'd like to live beside the seaside, Hove is more laid-back -
and more affordable - than neighbouring Brighton

'Hove retains un-spruced-up fringes.'

'Hove retains un-spruced-up fringes.'


What's going for it? 

Only the canny-eyed can tell the precise point, somewhere around
Audrey's chocolate boutique (straight outta Twin Peaks/the age of
Glenn Miller), when supposedly rakish Brighton, inventor of the dirty
weekend, segues into supposedly suburban Hove, land of Hyacinth
Buckets. Those stereotypes of this twin city hold less and less true
today. Stratospheric property prices in Brighton risk turning the
place into Notting Hill-on-Sea, with all the dirtiness of an
antiseptic wipe. Hove, meanwhile, though hardly cheap, retains
un-spruced-up fringes, where those less interested in property
investment portfolios but still hankering after sea air, like-minded
people and kiss-me-quick can just about survive. No wonder, then,
that it's Hove, not Brighton, these days that's attracting more young
people than any other spot in the country. For now.


The case against 

It lacks the intensity and density of Brighton. Suburban in places.


Well connected? 

Trains: six or so an hour to Worthing (15-29 mins) and on to
Southampton, Portsmouth and Bristol; half-hourly to Gatwick (30 mins)
and London Victoria (70 mins). Driving: 10-15 mins to the A27 and the
A23, though they can get clogged on high days and holidays.


Schools 

Primaries: Cottesmore St Mary Catholic, St Andrew's CE, Hove Junior,
Brunswick, Bilingual, Aldrington CE, West Blatchington and Goldstone
are all "good", Ofsted says, with Hangleton "outstanding".
Secondaries: Blatchington Mill and Hove Park are "good".


Hang out at... 

Spoilt for choice, with the added bonus that you won't need to elbow
out tourists at plum spots such as the Foragers or the Ginger Pig.


Where to buy 

Avenues of Regency town houses and flats both sides of the main drag,
Church Road, including delicious bow-fronted homes on Lansdowne Place
along to Western Lawns on the front; another sought-after area is
Poets Corner. The terraces then turn Victorian, and eventually
Edwardian, inland off Dyke Road Avenue to Shirley Drive and Goldstone
Crescent, and the avenues off Old Shoreham Road. More affordable
towards Portslade. Large detacheds and town houses, £800,000-£2.7m.
Smaller town houses, £400,000-£800,000. Semis, £350,000-£1.5m.
Terraces, £300,000-£600,000. Flats, from £175,000 for a studio to
£1.2m. Rentals: one-bed flat, £800-£1,300pcm; three-bed house,
£1,300-£2,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A four-bed Victorian terrace in Aldrington, £450,000, with
kingandchasemore.co.uk.


From the streets

Andrew Devon "Richardson Road, an enclave in 'WeHo' (west Hove;
nobody calls it that except me and my wife, but I'm sure it will
catch on): Drury, Curiosity cafe and Gratitude Tree Grocers."

Rose Jenkins "Hove Park cafe is the perfect spot for lunch, coffee
and cake after an open-air workout at Riptide gym next door."


Live in Hove? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 11 July.


Comments

So you live in Brighton? Hove, actually...

ah mr guv....
er it's Gove actually.
oh, what did I say ?
guv, as in shove or love,
Gove Michael Gove
as I hove or loathe.
oh.

Try adding a few splashes of soda next time.

Andrew Devon "Richardson Road, an enclave in 'WeHo' (west Hove;
nobody calls it that except me and my wife, but I'm sure it will
catch on)"

I dunno Andy, 'WeHo' sounds a bit like something Donald Trump
allegedly enjoyed in a Moscow hotel room to me...

 

