Let's move to Kirkcaldy, Fife: a beautiful bay and an excellent
farmers' market

This should be boom time for Adam Smith's home town. However…

Seafront at Kirkcaldy, Fife, on a sunny winter day

Kirkcaldy, Fife: 'It has much going for it.'


What's going for it? 
Were Adam Smith to be reincarnated here in his home town (as a
till-worker at Lidl, perhaps) he might come to different conclusions
about the free market. The wealth of nations is in short supply in
Kirkcaldy today: the hidden hand of capitalism is hidden indeed and
the trickle-down of good fortune to those in need is more of a
dribble. Kirkcaldy has not had a good half-century or so. Its raisons
d'être (linen, whaling and linoleum) are, these days, rather lacking
in "être". Yet the town has much going for it: its excellent farmers'
market, for example, or its jazzed-up centre, to say nothing of its
natural assets - a beautiful sweeping bay, the craggy castle at
Ravenscraig and a commutable position halfway between Edinburgh and
the prettiest stretch of the Fife coast. It should be booming. But
then, as Mr Smith might conclude, theory is not always borne out in
reality.


The case against 
The waterfront needs some love: currently a dual carriageway fronts
less than jovial postwar architecture. Local councillor Neil Crooks
has pledged palm trees to bring a touch of Miami.


Well connected? 
Trains: 50 minutes to Edinburgh Waverley, 40 to Perth and 35-45 to
Dundee. Driving: 50 minutes or so to Edinburgh, Perth and Dundee; 45
to St Andrews.


Schools 
Primaries: among many good, Dysart is mostly "very good", Dunnikier
and Pathhead are "very good", and Torbain is mostly "excellent".
Secondaries: Kirkcaldy High and Viewforth High are mostly "good", St
Andrew's RC High is "good" and Balwearie High is mostly "very good".


Hang out at... 
Don't expect haute cuisine. There's good south Asian food at
Annapurna, though.


Where to buy 
South and west around Beveridge Park, such as Abbotshall Road and the
fabulously named Boglily Road, and towards the coast at Bute Wynd and
Wemyssfield. Here you'll find sturdy, well-built grey stone
Victorians, and you're on the right side of town for getting to
Edinburgh. Postwar suburbans around Raith Drive, if that's your
poison. It's also pleasant in parts of Dysart, especially the old
centre, by the coast and beside Ravenscraig Park. Large detacheds and
town houses, £250,000-£500,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£150,000-£250,000. Semis, £110,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£80,000-£150,000. Flats, £40,000-£150,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £375-£475pcm.


Bargain of the week 
Large five-bedroom stone Victorian semi, in need of updating,
£245,000, with slaterhogg.co.uk.


From the streets

Morag Michael 
"Some run-down areas and an uninspiring High Street, but two
beautiful parks, a fine art gallery and excellent transport links."

Sandra Mills 
"An active University of the Third Age."

Sarah Bellis 
"When the Forth road bridge is shut it can be a nightmare to get
anywhere. It should be better once the Queensferry crossing is
complete."


Do you live in Kirkcaldy? Join the debate below.


Live in Thetford, Norfolk? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 11 April.


Comments

I'd rather live in Aleppo...

8 years at Mar-a-Lago also seems preferable.

No. No you wouldn't, you silly person.

Trains: 50 minutes to Edinburgh Waverley.

Reminds me of their referendum coverage.

True, the express trains are about 36 minutes. The vast majority are
Scotrail services, many of which do indeed take 50.

Yes, conceded, if "many" means only 2 trains in the next 3 days?

 

