Let's move to Rochester, Kent: 'It's ravishingly beautiful'

It's got a Norman castle, an ancient cathedral, fantastic views over
the Medway - and Dickens

View to historical Rochester across river Medway

Rochester, Kent: 'The views! The history!'


What's going for it? 

Every time I go to Rochester it surprises me. I forget how ravishingly
beautiful it is, the Norman castle and ancient cathedral high on a
bluff above the Medway, curling lanes of old houses, bookshops and
flint walls tumbling down the hill. The views! The long Medway valley,
lined with the foothills of the North Kent Downs, is dreamy. The
history! Pilgrims and scholars, naval bases and Dickens. There's no
escaping him here. Dickens spent much of his childhood in Chatham,
next door, and his latter years at Gad's Hill Place, just outside. The
Swiss chalet in the garden where he wrote his novels now sits,
surreally, on the High Street. Nearby, you'll find the Satis House, of
Miss Havisham fame, the Pumblechook's chambers, and crystals and karma
at the Little Dorrit new age shop.


The case against 

Rochester's economy, and that of Chatham and Gillingham, has for
centuries been tethered to the navy. A substitute has yet to be found
since the dockyard's decline.


Well connected? 

Excellent. Trains: stations in Rochester and Strood; every 15-20 mins
to Victoria (45-60 mins); every 20 mins to Margate (1hr); every 30
mins to St Pancras (40 mins), Charing Cross (1hr 15 mins), Canterbury
(50 mins). Driving: the M2 passes by, with the M25 and Maidstone 20-30
mins away, Whitstable 30 mins, Canterbury 45.


Schools 

Primaries: Many "good", with the Pilgrim CofE, Bligh Infant, St
Nicholas CofE Infant "outstanding". Secondaries: Thomas Aveling,
Strood Academy "good"; Rochester Grammar, Sir Joseph Williamson's
Mathematical "outstanding".


Hang out at...

For its size, it could do with more energy. Try Topes restaurant or
the Coopers Arms.


Where to buy 

The old heart is a delight of lanes and every period of property from
medieval on. Start around the castle and cathedral, Crow Lane and the
like, before heading up the hill of St Margaret's Street. It morphs
into the more suburban Borstal Road along the river cliff top, with
great views. Choicest suburbans lie south close to the M2. Fine
Victorians on and off Maidstone Road and Watt's Avenue. Strood, across
the river, is a little cheaper; towards Chatham, a lot cheaper.
Detacheds and town houses, £300,000-£1.5m. Semis,
£220,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages, £200,000-£350,000.
Flats, £120,000-£320,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £575-£850pcm;
three-bed house, £850-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Quite a few. This one's on a busy road, but close to the station at
Strood: Victorian five-bedroom terrace house, £290,000,
robinson-jackson.com. Tom Dyckhoff


From the streets

Joseph Stewart 
"It's a quick ride into London, yet still (relatively) affordable. The
high street has picked up, but it's a war zone at weekends. There's
class tension, a lack of local work, and a divide between grammars,
comps and independents."

Jill Zago 
"Thankfully, former MP Mark Reckless left. Overrun by weddings and hen
parties at weekends."



Live in Rochester? Join the debate below.

Do you live on the Kintyre Peninsula, Argyll & Bute? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 22 August.

 