Let's move to Bishop's Castle, Shropshire: 'This pretty town bursts
with enthusiasm'

It hums with independent shops, pubs, restaurants, museums,
microbreweries, an eco-suburb and even a walking festival


View down Union Street, Bishop's Castle, Shropshire

Bishop's Castle, Shropshire: 'A perfect spot to escape the world.'


What's going for it? 
As the isolated and only children know too well, when you have nobody
else to talk to, you must make your own entertainment. Bishop's
Castle, all alone out near the Welsh border, has had centuries to
perfect the art of entertaining yourself. This pretty town bursts
with enthusiasm. There may be barely 2,000 souls here, but goodness
they're industrious. Bishop's Castle hums with independent shops,
cafes, pubs, restaurants, B&Bs, two (two!) microbreweries, museums of
rural life and railways, a weekly market, an eco-suburb, and I
haven't even got on to sports and recreation, let alone the walking
festival. The town has long attracted alternative types, as my granny
called them: artists, writers, the long-haired and crafty, the kind
who can whittle the Cutty Sark from a twig. There was a horrifying
spate of yarn bombing last autumn. If anyone asked them, I'm sure
this lot could work out Brexit after a community meeting or five;
but, keeping itself to itself, Bishop's Castle instead makes a
perfect spot to escape the world as it self-destructs, and indulge,
perhaps, in a little macramé.


The case against 
No bishop. Say goodbye to metropolitan pleasures. Far, far from
anything but Church Stretton.


Well connected? 
Hardly. Trains: you kidding? Buses: six or so a day to Shrewsbury
(1hr). Driving: off a hardly main road, the A488, which trundles
between Shrewsbury and mid-Wales; 30 mins to Ludlow, 45 to
Shrewsbury, 50 to Telford/the M54.


Schools 
Primaries: Bishop's Castle and nearby Lydbury North CofE are both
"good", says Ofsted, with Norbury "outstanding". Secondaries: the
town's community college is "good".


Hang out at... 
What a choice. The Castle Hotel, with log fires, beams, leather
chairs and a lovely garden? The Three Tuns? The cheery Six Bells? Or
coffee, cake and classical music at Yarborough House?


Where to buy 
The High Street - hefting its way uphill from the church, via the
town hall, to the site of the castle - is a delight, a model of
building types from half-timbered black and white, via pastel-painted
Georgian and stone-walled 18th century to Victorian red brick. You
The usual padding of suburbia. Detacheds and town houses,
£250,000-£600,000. Semis, £170,000-£270,000. Terraces and cottages,
£120,000-£200,000.


Bargain of the week 
Seven-bed listed town house (a former shop) on the High Street,
£245,000 with Samuel Wood via rightmove.co.uk.


From the streets

Peter Keam 
"It's all hill. You can bet that if you're at the bottom, what you
want is at the top, and vice versa."

Carol Harvey 
"The town has a distinctly bohemian feel to it and attracts creative
people."

Jean Shirley 
"The SpArC theatre has performances I never dreamed I'd see so far
from major venues."


Live in Bishop's Castle? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 21 February.


Comments

It's a shame that there's no mention of the legendary ex Small Faces
songwriter and bassist, Ronnie Lane living nearby in the 1970s. We
went to a celebration party for what would have been his 65th
birthday even though he died in 1997.

There was a fantastic collection of creative types there and the
celebration, held at the Three Tuns pub was brilliant.

We spent the next day on a pilgrimage to Ronnie's old farm, the
Miners' Arms and the Drum an…

As a former Salopian I can say it's the farthest you can live in the
sticks with a fairly decent job (Telford, Shrewsbury, Hereford, West
Midlands Conurbation if you are feeling brave and have good MPG) -
any further out west and you're in trouble.

Bishops Castle is a creative town with some great folks and some
great countryside to boot - take the Kerry Ridgeway, for example.
Ludlow and Shrewsbury are lovely towns with a great mix of Tudor
arch…

 


