Let's move to Stamford, Lincolnshire: it's a real-life Jane Austen set

Almost implausibly perfect, its film-star beauty never fades

Stamford, Lincolnshire: 'You can't move for heritage trails.'

Stamford, Lincolnshire: 'You can't move for heritage trails.'


What's going for it? 

If you have a sense of deja vu in Stamford, it's probably because you
have deja vu-ed these streets before. Film crews after that
Merrie-Olde-Englande-before-factories-and-uppity-plebs-ruined-everything
look are 10 a penny here. The industrial revolution bypassed Stamford
when local nob the Marquess of Exeter lobbied for the railway to go
via Peterborough instead. In the 1960s they got a bypass, declared
Stamford England's first conservation area, and listed 600 buildings.
Today, this is our Finest Historic Stone Town. You can't move for
heritage trails, plaques and costumed extras in bustles. True, the
21st century has seeped in; there is a Holland & Barrett, a bus
station, and fine arts centre (though, sadly, the Greggs shut last
year), but even new executive homes look as if they're expecting the
Dowager Countess of Grantham for tea.


The case against 

One can tire of honey-hued stone, of perfection. One can even miss
Greggs.


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to Birmingham (just over 90 mins), Peterborough (15
mins or so), Leicester (41 mins) and Cambridge (68 mins); London is
just under 90 mins, with a change. Driving: Peterborough and Grantham
25 mins; Leicester, Cambridge and Nottingham are about an hour away.
Traffic in town can get clogged.


Schools 

Primaries: Malcolm Sargent, St Gilbert's CofE, St Augustine's Catholic
and St George's CofE are all "good", says Ofsted, with The Bluecoat
"outstanding". Secondaries: the Stamford Welland Academy is "good".
Some good independents, too. Casterton College is "Good" and in the
top 5% of schools nationally for progress.


Hang out at...

You won't want for historic coaching inns. The George is the most
famous; also feted are the Bull & Swan and the Tobie Norris.


Where to buy 

Almost the entire town centre is a conservation area, and rich with
historic town houses and cottages from the 16th century onwards.
Nothing comes cheap. For suburbans, look west towards the A1,
especially Roman Bank and Casterton Road. Large detacheds and town
houses, £450,000-£1.2m. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£250,000-£450,000. Semis, £200,000-£500,000. Terraces and
cottages, £170,000-£325,000. Flats, £130,000-£270,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £400-£575pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£750-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

It's postwar homes like this semi that offer the only bargains in
town; needs updating. £200,000 with sowdenwallis.co.uk.



From the streets

Martin Lander 
"Superb arts centre, with great coffee shop and gallery."

Roger Protz 
"The George, arguably the finest of all the old coaching inns on the
Great North Road. A feast of sumptuous wood-panelled rooms, log fires,
large garden, famous 'gallows' inn sign across the road."



Do you live in Stamford? Join the debate below.

Live in Romford, east London? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 21 November

 