Let's move to Ashbourne, Derbyshire: 'A delightful town'

The two-day Royal Shrovetide football match is its annual
blood-letting

Ashbourne, Derbyshire.

Ashbourne, Derbyshire.


What's going for it? 
I am not a football kind of chap. I barely know
my Nobby Stiles from my Cristiano Ronaldo. But, if I were, this is
the kind of footy I'd like to play. Ashbourne's Royal Shrovetide
match has been played every Shrove Tuesday for hundreds of years, and
employs lots of elbows and a fair amount of handball, bunting, beer
and clambering through the river. The whole town plays: the Up'ards
(those living north of the river) versus the Down'ards. Ashbourne's
pretty, sloping, stone streets course for eight hours a day over two
days with limbs, shouting and sweaty bodies. The point is to get the
cork ball to one of two millstones at either end of town. But really,
it's the taking part. The event is an annual blood-letting for the
town, which, soon after, reverts to normal - antique hunters peering
through windows, pavements bustling with walkers off to the
Tissington Trail, the whole surreal game just a dream for another 363
days.


The case against... 
Very little. It’s a delightful town, though pretty sleepy outside 
Shrovetide. The outskirts are increasingly troubled with new 
developments, with mixed results.


Well connected? 
Trains: no. Driving: well-placed on the A52, with
Derby half an hour one way, and Stoke 40 mins the other - another
10-15 mins and you're at the M1/M6; you're at the foot of the Peak
District, so wild hills are 15 mins away. Buses to Derby (hourly, 40
mins), or to Buxton (35 mins, hourly or every 2 hours).


Schools Primaries: 
Parkside Junior, St Oswald's C of E Infant and
Ashbourne Hilltop Infant are "good", says Ofsted; as are nearby Henry
Prince C of E First. Secondaries: Queen Elizabeth's Grammar is
"good".


Hang out at... 
Bramhalls' Deli for posh provisions, White's for
arguably the best food, and in Fenny Bentley, the Coach and Horses
for the best beer.


Where to buy 
There's an old heart of sloping stone streets and nice
18th- and 19th-century town houses, with the odd Tudor and Stuart
remnant. Nearby villages, such as Tissington and Ilam, are drop-dead
gorgeous. Lots of new-build estates popping up on the outskirts, such
as Saxon Fields. Large detacheds and town houses, £300,000-£550,000.
Detacheds and smaller town houses, £180,000-£300,000. Semis,
£150,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages, £110,000-£230,000. Flats,
£100,000-£200,000.


Bargain of the week 
On the edge of town, a three-bedroom semi for
£129,950, with Draycotts, via onthemarket.com.


From the streets

Nathalie Quigley 
"It's a great location for accessing the lovely
villages and landscapes of the national park. Lots of independent
shops, coffee shops and restaurants."

Arthur Watts 
"Stunning countryside; welcoming, friendly people.
Desperately needs a bypass, as it's frequently choked by lorries and
tourists."

Live in Ashbourne? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 7 February.


Comments

Ha, we went on Hally's stag do there. Locals were bemused. Terrific
town and scenery. And some nose-bag.

Makes sense.

Many middle class people

drive a Volvo and holiday in Tuscany?
prefer wine to beer?
complain about the state of the NHS but also that they pay too much
tax?

Oh the horror.


 

