Let's move to Kirkwall and Orkney: all sea, sky and peace

Life on these isles is, if not simpler (have you tried getting from A
to B on 70 islands?), then more elemental

Kirkwall and Orkney

Kirkwall and Orkney: 'The people are fabulous and resourceful.'


What's going for it? 
The Orkney islands are my Plan B (though I haven't told my wife).
When all hell is breaking loose at home and post-postmodern chaos
engulfs the world, when CBeebies is cranked up to 10 and I'm tripping
over the Lego, I think of Orkney. I picture myself collecting seaweed
on a beach on Sanday, staring out at a startled sheep from a little
stone cottage on Hoy, clambering over the moors to a cairn, or
dancing to folk jigs at a Stromness inn. Life on these isles is, if
not simpler (have you tried getting from A to B on 70 islands?), then
The people fabulous and resourceful. And they have CBeebies, too. I'm
still working on Plan C.


The case against 
Remote, naturally. Better get used to wind, rain, more wind, more
rain, then sunshine: the weather is wild and unpredictable. Life can
be tough, and ferries and flights pricey.


Well connected? 
Surprisingly so. There are daily flights to Aberdeen, Edinburgh,
Glasgow, Inverness and Shetland; others to Manchester, Birmingham,
Belfast and European cities. Ferries: several from Scotland's
northern coasts; Orkney Ferries get you about the islands. Driving:
Kirkwall and Stromness are 20 minutes apart. Decent bus services.


Schools 
Primaries: Papdale and Glaitness are mostly "good", Education
Scotland says; Firth, Shapinsay and Burray are "very good".
Secondaries: Kirkwall Grammar is mostly "good".


Hang out at... 
Every port, every island, has its favourite spot. For me it's the
Ferry Inn or the modern Pier Arts Centre in Stromness, and the Reel
beside St Magnus's for coffee in Kirkwall.


Where to buy 
Orcadian beginners might want to keep close to bustle in the two
towns, Kirkwall and Stromness. Expect stone cottages and terraces,
plus suburban pebbledash and bungalows. Both are on the main island,
decently populated and dominated by farming. There are causeways to
the southern islands, such as South Ronaldsay. More intrepid? Hoy is
pretty, but rocky and wild; quieter and more remote, Sanday is, as
its name suggests, blessed with powdery beaches. Large detacheds and
town houses, £250,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£100,000-£250,000. Semis, £65,000-£150,000. Terraces and cottages,
£65,000-£130,000. A paltry rental market.


Bargain of the week 
How can you/I resist? An island for sale, Holm of Grimbister, with
one-bed cottage, £300,000, with savills.com.


From the streets

Gareth Crichton 
"A walk through Stromness to Ness Point, then up the Brae of Wit and
back is all that is best about Orkney: friendly chat along the way;
stunning sky and sea; peace and space."

Steve Sankey 
"We moved to South Ronaldsay from Edinburgh, to start a wildlife
tourism business, raise our son and farm organically. Fresh clean
air, beautiful scenery, sea, friendly neighbours, good schools and
healthcare, and great wildlife."


Do you live in Kirkwall and Orkney? Join the debate below.


Live in Rhayader and the Elan valley? Have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 14 February.


Comments

Moved to Orkney Oct 14. Live out in West Mainland with a view of 3
islands and the Atlantic. It's the most amazing place to live, can't
imagine that we'll ever want to live anywhere else. There are
downsides of course, for us mainly that our family are south
(Lancashire) but with a bit of planning it's very easy and not too
expensive to see them. Plus we get lots of visitors which is lovely.

The quality and pace of life is so different, folk are…

My memory of Orkney was wonderful scenery, lovely people, juke boxes,
Texas Swing Band and funny smelling ciggies. I had a great time but
as a London/Brighton gal I was welcomed as a visitor but don't think
that I would have become anything more than an outsider!

 

