Let's move to Preston, Lancashire: parched peas and plenty of trains

The city's had a few grim years - but things are looking up

Preston Skyline looking towards the Avenham flats tower block

Preston: 'The council is experimenting with co-ops, and keeping wealth
and investment local.'


What's going for it? 

This city, like so many, has seen the proverbial hit the fan. When I
popped by in 2011, austerity was biting. Shops were being boarded up.
Big investments were collapsing. Like every other council, Preston's
was facing nasty choices. Six years on, although peace, love and
prosperity do not reign on its streets, interesting things are
bubbling up. The council is experimenting with co-ops, and keeping
wealth and investment local. Avenham Park has been tidied up. Instead
of being demolished for a drab shopping mall, the magnificent postwar
bus station has been protected. And PricewaterhouseCoopers last year
named Preston the best city in the north-west in which to live and
work. One to watch.


The case against 

It's going to be a long slog. Poverty and inequality still haunt the
city.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: on the west coast mainline, three or four an hour to
Wigan (10‑20 mins) and Manchester (40-60 mins); hourly to Liverpool
(60 mins); five an hour to Blackpool (25-35 mins). Driving: right on
the M6, making Manchester or the Lakes just under an hour, Liverpool
just over an hour, and Blackpool 30 mins.


Schools 

Primaries: Cop Lane CofE, St Andrew's CofE, St Gregory's Catholic,
Queen's Drive, Fulwood St Peter's CofE and Sherwood are "outstanding".
Secondaries: Ashton Community, Moor Park High and Christ the King
Catholic High are "good", with Archbishop Temple CofE, Our Lady's
Catholic High, Preston Muslim Girls' High, Penwortham Girls' High and
All Hallows Catholic High "outstanding".

Hang out at...

Brucciani's old-school coffee house. Or queue for "parched peas" at
The Prestonian.


Where to buy 

The city centre has some smashing property by the river in Avenham,
with late Georgian/early Victorian town houses; check out Winckley
Square and Avenham Park. Great Victorian semis and town houses south
of Watling Street Road, Higher and Lower Bank Roads conservation area,
and around Garstang/Lytham Road, and in Ashton-on-Ribble. Detached
suburbans south from Penwortham to Whitestake and New Longton, north
in Fulwood, Ingol, Cottam. Large detacheds and town houses,
£375,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller town houses,
£120,000-£375,000. Semis, £80,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages,
£50,000-£250,000. Flats, £40,000-£300,000. Rentals: one-bed flat,
£350-£750pcm; three-bed house, £500-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A four-bed, early Victorian town house in Avenham, needing an update,
£175,000 with martinco.com.


From the streets

Sara Dixon 
"Ham & Jam cafe: great coffee, a popular kids' book club and an
exhibition space."

Stuart Dagger 
"The home of English football and one of the oldest original grounds
in the league."

Kathryn Dickens 
"Driving through the city centre is horrendous since Lancashire
council 'improved' the road layout."



Live in Preston? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Boscastle, Cornwall? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 15 August.


Comments

This takes me back ! I lived there in my teens - attended one of the
convents then in the centre. I spent my after school hours on the bus
station with mates ...

The bus station is well worth a look

from over your shoulder as you head to Lancaster

I'm sure if you try just a little harder you'll find an even more
uninspiring picture to use...

They've printed that to dissuade people from coming. Good thing too,
the traffic is bad enough as it is.

Those are Avenham flats. You might go in, but you'll never come out
again!

 