Let's move to Exeter, Devon: a city whose time has finally come

What gifts it has: beaches, hills, wilderness, astonishing food and
hobbity old pubs, medieval gothic townhouses, proper coffee at last!

Exeter, Devon: "It's getting an air of confidence."

Exeter, Devon: "It's getting an air of confidence."



What's going for it?

Exeter's had a rum old 75 years. First it was the Nazis, raining
bombs. Then the town planners and property developers, rebuilding it
in the most magnolia of modernisms, unwonking its wonky lines. The
next misfortune arrived in the avuncular guise of Bill Bryson who, in
his 1995 bestseller Notes From A Small Island, damned Exeter with the
faintest of praise: "not an easy place to love" (Bill could make or
break a place back then). A decade later, the city won Clone Town of
the Year. Hold up, isn't this the part where I'm meant to tell you the
good bits? Well, the happy ending is that Exeter is beginning to wise
up. So it should. What gifts this city has: surrounded by beaches,
hills, wilderness, astonishing food producers and hobbity old country
pubs; a cityscape of medieval gothic and Georgian townhouses; the
Exeter Chiefs; proper coffee at last! It's not suddenly turned into
Devon's Berlin or Brooklyn, but it is getting an air of confidence.
And a branch of Ikea.


The case against 

Great progress, but still a way to go. It needs to capitalise further
on its distinctive identity and the riches around and within it.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Taunton (28 minutes), Exmouth (30 minutes), Bristol,
Plymouth and Yeovil (all one hour). Driving: half an hour to the sea
at Exmouth or to the wilds of Dartmoor, 45 minutes to Taunton and 90
minutes to Bristol. You can fly from the airport to London,
Manchester, Newcastle, Edinburgh Glasgow and abroad.


Schools 

Among many "good" primaries, Ofsted says, there are some "outstanding"
schools: Exwick Heights, Ide, St Leonard's CofE, St Sidwell's CofE, St
Michael's CofE and Wynstream. Secondaries: St James, St Luke's, St
Peter's CofE , Isca and West Exe are all "good".


Hang out at... 

Exe Coffee Roasters. Exploding Bakery: those cakes! For posh, head out
of town to the Salutation Inn, Topsham, or Lympstone Manor.


Where to buy 

You'll find fragments in the centre that escaped the bombing. But the
nicest neighbourhoods of late Georgian and Victorian are further out;
surrounding the university, especially Pennsylvania, and east along
Heavitree Road and Fore Street to Heavitree by the hospital, Belmont
and St Leonard's. Suburbans are south-east by the M5 and the golf
club, Countess Wear and Great Woodcote Park. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £450,000-£1.3m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£450,000. Semis, £200,000-£500,000. Terraces and
cottages, £150,000-£300,000. Flats, £125,000-£500,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £525-£800pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£750-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Yes, it's £625,000 and needs work. But it's got 10 bedrooms
(weekesestateagents.co.uk).


From the streets

Harry Benyon 
"Never far from stunning views across the estuary to the horizon
hills. The old canal basin is a delight of converted warehouses, shops
and eateries."

David Fairley 
"Try the recently reopened Iron Bridge pub, a tiny gem on historic St
David's Hill."

Linda Clare 
"Miles and miles of depressing suburbs; horrendous traffic; limited
cultural offering; dull town centre; property overpriced. But
Northcott theatre is a gem."



Live in Exeter? Join the debate below.

Do you live in King's Cross, London? Do you have a favourite haunt or
a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 6 March.


 