Let's move to Lampeter, Ceredigion: a neat little town, if you like students

This pretty little market town is a magnet for eco-warriors, hippies
and students. Lots and lots of students...

Lampeter, Ceredigion
"Lampeter sits contentedly among the lumpy hills of rural west Wales."


What's going for it? 

An odd spot for a university campus, I've always thought. Lampeter,
sitting contentedly amid the juicy green fields and lumpy hills of
rural west Wales, is so small you might lose it under a cake crumb on
the road map - just shy of 3,000 people, swelling by a third when
the students descend. Students, one assumes, who are after a different
kind of higher education experience, involving queueing for a pound of
lamb chops at the (excellent) butcher's, perhaps, or a warm buttered
Welsh cake from the baker's, rather than downing their body weight in
Jaegerbombsnowballs or whatever 19-year-olds drink these days. Not
that Lampeter doesn't offer nightlife of sorts, or that its students
(and its permanent residents) don't live high on the hog from time to
time. I've witnessed the Friday-night aftermath. But this is
essentially a Welsh market town in all its pretty, humdrum glory,
albeit with a growing reputation as a magnet for eco-warriors and
yarnbombing hippies. Albeit, too, with a higher chance than average of
getting into a conversation about the computational modelling of
optoelectronic medical devices at the tandoori.


The case against 

Small, hard to get to and from, and inevitably provincial, in good and
bad ways; once you're here, you're here. The university means it's got
more bustle and diversity in term time than your usual Welsh market
town; it's quiet, though, in the holidays. You might even miss the
students.


Well connected? 

Not its forte. Trains: not a chance. Driving: you can make the seaside
at New Quay or Aberaeron in 20 minutes, Aberystwyth, Cardigan or the
A40 at Carmarthen in 45. Buses connect with Aberystwyth, Carmarthen
and Swansea.


Schools 

Primaries: Carreg Hirfaen, Llanybydder and Y Dderi all have "good"
quality indicators, says Estyn. A new primary, Dyffryn Cledlyn, opened
last year in Drefach. Secondaries: Bro Pedr has "good" quality
indicators too.


Hang out at...

The queue at Conti's fabulous ice-cream parlour. Blackberry!
Elderflower! A magical spot. Good pubs in town, too, of course. But
you'll need to travel to Aberaeron for the best food.


Where to buy 

It's hard to go wrong in a place this small. It's a neat little town
of brightly painted Victorians, villas, stone townhouses and terraces
in the centre, the usual ring of suburbans, and farmhouses,
smallholdings and sizable rural estates in the hinterland. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £275,000-£550,000. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £150,000-£275,000. Semis, £90,000-£180,000. Terraces
and cottages, £75,000-£150,000. Rentals: not much of a market for
non-students.


Bargain of the week 

A teeny, tiny two-bedroom end-of-terrace, needing a fair bit of
renovation, £60,000 with housesimple.com.


From the streets
Robert Downing 
"Wonderful independent shops, eateries and pubs. The Welsh Quilt
Centre is very popular and far more interesting than it might sound."

Pam Wallace 
"Property prices are eye-poppingly low if, like us, you moved here
from the south-east of England. The Town Hall deli/cafe is well worth
a visit."


Live in Lampeter? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Kelso? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 10 July.

 