Let's move to King's Cross, London: a most astonishing transformation

Fragments of a less salubrious past hold on for dear life amid the
swank

Gasholders development on the Regents Canal at Kings Cross

King's Cross: 'Eyewateringly expensive, mostly.'


What's going for it? 

Of all the remarkable transformations in supergentrified London, that
of King's Cross is the most astonishing. I can just remember what it
was, dim memories of jigging at its warehouse clubs in the 90s. Before
my time, there's always Mona Lisa (the film) and reruns of The Sweeney
to recreate the area's prostitution and darkness, its dripping railway
arches and encrusted tenements. Railway stations used to blight areas,
their comings and goings attracting the kind of untrustworthy spivs
who try to terrorise the older women in The Ladykillers. Nowadays
they're "hubs", their sleek bars and delis paused in by commuters off
to Potters Bar, their luxury apartments paused in by tech millionaires
off to Singapore. We all come and go these days. Fragments of a less
salubrious past, though, remain, holding on for dear life amid the
swank, like Housman's radical bookshop and the glorious Camley Street
nature reserve, offering alternative utopias had history here taken a
different path.


The case against 

The thundering traffic and choking pollution of Euston and Pentonville
roads. When Google's HQ is finished, expect the neighbourhood's
transformation to be complete. Eyewateringly expensive, mostly.


Well connected? 

Are you kidding? It's a hub! Two rail stations, the Eurostar terminal
and the tube has the Piccadilly, Victoria, Circle, Metropolitan,
Hammersmith & City and Northern lines passing through. Driving: I
wouldn't.


Schools 

Primaries: the new King's Cross Academy has not been inspected yet;
Edith Neville, St Aloysius Catholic, Argyle, Winton, Copenhagen and
Blessed Sacrament RC are all "good", says Ofsted, with St Mary & St
Pancras CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: Regent High and Maria Fidelis
RC are "good", with Elizabeth Garrett Anderson (girls) "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Almost entirely composed of hangouts. Follow the fashion catwalk up to
Central St Martins for "posh chains", like Vinoteca, Dishoom and
Caravan, and, come October, "boutique" shopping mall Coal Drops Yard.


Where to buy 

Historically a crossroads over the river Fleet, it's hardly a place at
all, most of "King's Cross" being nicked from neighbours such as
Somers Town and Barnsbury. The smart new development of expensive
apartment blocks behind the station has created a kind of identity.
Elsewhere it's a mix of its neighbours' council estates, Georgian,
Regency or Victorian townhouses and occasional mansion blocks. Large
townhouses, £1.5m-£4m. Smaller townhouses and terraces,
£900,000-£1.5m. Flats: three bedrooms, £550,000-£3m; two bedrooms,
£450,000-£2.5m; one bedroom, £325,000-£1m. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £1,100-£3,000pcm; a three-bedroom flat, £2,000-£4,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom ex-council maisonette, £525,000, with foxtons.co.uk.


From the streets

Liz Wheatley 
"Ruby Violet ice-cream parlour - the best ice-cream in London, by the
canal."

Nigel Kemp 
"Aux Pains de Papy, on Gray's Inn Road - best ever croissants, pains
au chocolat, eclairs, milles-feuilles etc. You can watch them baking
at the back of the shop. And great coffee."

Jacqueline Reed 
"Woburn Walk - a unique passageway that takes you back in time."



Live in King's Cross? Join the debate below

Do you live in Ipswich? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 17 April.

 