Let's move to Gospel Oak, north London: Betjeman hated it, but there's lots to love

It's shabbier than its illustrious neighbours, but that's what makes
it what it is


Street in Gospel Oak, north London

Gospel Oak, north London: 'I love the place.'

What's going for it? 

"Here from my eyrie, as the sun went down/I heard the old North London
puff and shunt/Glad that I did not live in Gospel Oak." What an
incorrigible snob John Betjeman could be. He was born in Gospel Oak,
but couldn't wait to escape Lissenden Gardens and, as he saw it,
haul himself up the social scale when his family moved home up
Highgate Hill. Back then Gospel Oak was a shabbier affair, carved up
by railway viaducts. Today, London being what it's become, it's a
lot smarter, though the viaducts are still there, and after Betjeman
left they were joined by council estates he'd have doubtless hated.
I love the place. When I first moved to London, this is where I
dreamed I'd end up, living the north London life. I'd be a
professor. I'd be a connoisseur of council estates. I'd probably
have a regular column in the London Review of Books and buy organic
veg. I'd be a doughty member of community groups. I'd walk my dog
on Parliament Hill and swim daily in the lido. Of course, London being
what it's become, and despite still being cheaper than Highgate, I
couldn't even think of affording to live in Gospel Oak. Funny how
life turns out.

The case against 

It's still a shabbier affair than its illustrious neighbours, though
I think that's what makes it what it is.

Well connected? 

Trains: on the London Overground to Finchley Road (4 mins), Willesden
Junction (14 mins), Highbury & Islington (12 mins), Dalston Junction
(16 mins), Hackney Central (18 mins) and Stratford (32 mins); and the
Barking line every 15 mins to Harringay (9 mins) and Walthamstow (19
mins). Driving: if all's well, 20 mins to the M1 and North Circular
at Brent Cross.


Schools 

Primaries: Carlton, St Dominic's Catholic and Fleet are all
"good", Ofsted says, with Gospel Oak - next to the station - 
"outstanding". Secondaries: Parliament Hill (girls) and William
Ellis (boys) are "good".


Hang out at...

The Bull & Last, the garlanded local in Dartmouth Park, currently
closed for refurbishment, is where the future me would have had his
Sunday lunches. That or the Southampton Arms - a proper boozer with
a piano and doesn't take cards.


Where to buy 

It's cobbled together from the fringes of fancier Belsize Park,
Hampstead, Dartmouth Park and Kentish Town, its streets a combination
of Victorian/Edwardian stucco or redbrick terraces and townhouses, or
60s/70s council estates. Poshest are the ladder of streets in the
Mansfield Conservation area, below Parliament Hill. But the postwar
estates make it relatively (with the usual London caveat) affordable.
Townhouses and terraces, £800,000-£2m. Flats: three bedrooms,
£650,000-£1m; two bedrooms, £400,000-£900,000; one bedroom,
£350,000-£600,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £1,350-£1,550pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Four-bedroom terraced house, £750,000, with oliverstown.com.


From the streets

Beth Oliver
"It's a fantastic place to live: easy access to Hampstead Heath,
Rossella for the best pizzas outside of Italy, and the Gipsy Queen pub
for their weekly quiz."

Phil Lea
"An awesome transport hub: the Overground to Barking, Stratford,
Richmond and Clapham Junction, the 24 (best bus in London) to Pimlico,
the C11 to Brent Cross and Archway, the 46 to Paddington (via
Lord's) and Grays Inn Road."



Live in Gospel Oak? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Great Malvern and the Malvern Hills? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 27 November.
