Let's move to Great Malvern and the Malvern hills: walk in Elgar's footsteps

Seemingly a sedate affair with prim Victorian hotels, the town has a racy cultural life

Malvern Hills, Worcestershire: "The countryside is perhaps the most stirring in England."

Malvern Hills, Worcestershire: "The countryside is perhaps the most stirring in England."


What's going for it? 

I learned to drive on the Malvern Hills, which is probably why I
failed my test. Twice. It's not a spot for a novice. Hairpin bends.
Narrow, winding lanes charged down by local Mr Toads in their Morgans
(the car factory is nearby). And you want hill starts? You got 'em:
45 degrees steep (OK, not quite). They - well, I - call them the
Midlands Alps, rising without warning a thousand feet up from the
Severn Valley.

Elgar, with his thighs of steel, famously walked the rollercoaster
slopes of these old volcanoes for inspiration. The reason is obvious.
The countryside is perhaps the most stirring in England, all pagan
hill forts, ancient oaks and medieval priories. Great Malvern,
seemingly a sedate affair of bargeboards, doilies and prim, Victorian
hotels, but with a rather racy cultural life (the theatre's amazing)
and a nice line in decent coffee. I adore the place. Which is probably
why I failed my test. Too much gawping. Keep your eyes on the road!


The case against 

If only it were closer to the seaside.


Well connected? 

Trains: there are two or three (though sometimes just the one) an hour
to Worcester (13 minutes) and Hereford (29 minutes). Driving: it takes
25 minutes to get to Worcester and to the M5 and M50, and 40 to get to
Hereford.


Schools 

Primaries: Cradley CofE, Grove, Great Malvern, Malvern Wells CofE,
Malvern Parish CofE, Colwall CofE and Madresfield CofE are all
"good", says Ofsted, with Malvern Wyche CofE and Somers Park
"outstanding". Secondaries: Dyson Perrins CofE and The Chase are
"good". Lots of independents.


Hang out at...

There are plenty of decent cafes in town. In the pretty villages
around, The Inn at Welland is feted, as is The Swan in Newland.


Where to buy 

The area is heavy on Victorian/Edwardian gabled villas. In Great
Malvern itself, there are endless leafy great avenues. Pretty villages
cling to the slopes of the surrounding hills, such as Colwall and
Madresfield (whose stately home was at least partly the inspiration
for Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited). The hills are wound by
roads that are lined with large houses and cottages that make the most
of the views eastwards across the Severn Valley and, best of all,
westwards towards Herefordshire and Wales. There is the odd
black-and-white half-timbered cottage. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£1.2m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£450,000. Semis, £175,000-£400,000. Terraces and
cottages, £150,000-£300,000. Flats, £100,000-£450,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £425-£625pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£720-£1,100pcm.


Bargain of the week 

On the market for the first time since it was built in 1966, this
three-bedroom detached house is on sale for £345,000 with
plandj.co.uk.


From the streets

Alison King
"A gorgeous part of the country, loved by walkers, dog owners,
cyclists, the retired and, apparently, people with PhDs. Welcoming to
refugees - over the past few months several families have settled in
the town, mostly supported by local people.

Phil King
"Birmingham-worthy curry at Anupam. Stunning views to east and west on
the many walks."

Vera Chapman Browne
"Beautiful Victorian properties, an independent cinema and the St
Richard's Hospice bookshop. Beautiful views - bring a dog."

Live in Great Malvern and the Malvern Hills? Join the debate below

Do you live in Sherborne, Dorset? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 1 January.

