Let's move to Weston-super-Mare: it's building on the Banksy Effect

Banksy's snarky Dismaland gave the fading seaside town a boost - now
all it needs is a big idea

Beach in Weston-super-Mare, Somerset

The Arts Council called the town an "artistic and cultural dream",
which might be over-egging it a tad. 


What's going for it? 

Plans are afoot to magic Weston-super-Mare into Bristol's Margate.
In May, the chief executive of the Arts Council popped by to give the
town the princely sum of £50,000, no less, to "build on" the
so-called Banksy Effect. I'm no art critic, but I could have sworn
there was some irony involved when Mr Banksy brought his Dismaland
theme park to Weston in 2015. Little did he know he was actually the
local council regeneration strategy: 150,000 people visited; £20m
poured into local coffers, apparently. Brad Pitt dropped in. The Arts
Council called the town an "artistic and cultural dream", which might
be over-egging it a tad. But if by that it means affordable rent and
property, delicious geography (three sweeping bays, dreamy views
across Bristol Channel, and I do love an iron age hill fort) and a
nice line in late Victorian architecture, then maybe they're on to
something. Come on, artists. Do your duty. Regenerate!


The case against 

I sense it may take a little more than £50,000 to turn the town's
fortunes around. It's had a fair bit of investment - the rebuilt
pier, smart new paving, festivals-a-go-go, often grim new architecture
etc - but many grand plans have come and gone. The town is in great
need of a big idea. Oh, the mud at low tide!


Well connected? 

Trains: on a loop off the mainline; two or three an hour to Bristol
(18-34 minutes), one or two to Taunton (30-35 minutes), both with
changes on to faster lines. Driving: you're about 10 minutes to the
M5, with Bristol in three-quarters of an hour and Bristol airport in
40 minutes.


Schools 

Primaries: among many good, according to Ofsted, Bournville is
"outstanding". Secondaries: Hans Price is "good" and Priory Community
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

I wouldn't say gastronomy was the town's strongest game. Your usual
seaside selection. I had a nice Greek at Meze Mazi.


Where to buy 

This town is blessed with exceptional late Victorian and Edwardian
houses - villas to terraces - most of them congregated up the
hill, with views over Weston Bay, and eastwards to Milton, and to the
south in Southward, east of Beach Road and Uphill Road, around
Clarence Park. The rest pales a little in comparison, but there are
some nice nuggets of former villages in Old Worle and Uphill. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £350,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £225,000-£350,000. Semis, £150,000-£500,000. Terraces
and cottages, £300,000. Flats, £80,000-£350,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £450-£550pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£800-£950pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom period detached house in Southward, £225,000, with
saxonswsm.co.uk.


From the streets

Tim Smith 
"Kaspa's for wonderful ice-creams, crepes and waffles. Beware the mud
flats at low tide."

Joan Halstead 
"Don't  move here for excitement. There are lots of lovely independent
cafes."


Live in Weston? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Callander and the Trossachs? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
31 July.


Comments

Is Mr B's still there? Who needs a Turner Contemporary when you have an arcade of such quality.

I worked on the refit of Mr B's about 20 years ago.

Nah, it's a Yates now... it's sorely missed..

Being back the Tropicana. So many happy days spent there as a little zombie.

Drinks were free.
Fun and sunshine.
That's enough for everyone.

It actually opened the year of Wham's hit

 