Let's move to Tenterden, Kent: "Home of the booming British wine
industry"

It's a monied, country casuals kind of place

Row of wooden buildings with brick in Tenterden, Kent

Tenterden: "It's a who's who of architectural styles."


What's going for it? 

Centuries ago, Tenterden was a port, the estuarine tentacles of the
sea creeping up the squelchy Rother valley with the tides from Rye to
Small Hythe. These days the town is beached in the gentle hills and
high hedges of Kent's High Weald - though you never know, climate
change may in time resurrect its long-dead shipbuilding industry. For
now, at least, there is not a whiff of ozone in the spring air.
Instead, Tenterden is all budding hop trellises and grapevines: much
of the UK's booming wine industry is nearby - climate change again.
It's a monied, country casuals kind of place, with a pretty townscape
of verges, trees and a who's who of architectural styles, mostly
ignored by coach parties thanks to its relative isolation off the
beaten track - high on retirees (see below) and prep schools, low on
thrills. Though I have been known to utter a yelp when the steam
trains on the Kent & East Sussex Railway brake too abruptly.


The case against 

Rather conservative, culturally and politically, and expensive with
it.


Well connected? 

Trains: it's a 20-minute drive to Headcorn, or half an hour to Ashford
International for mainline services to London. Driving: 25 minutes to
the M20, 30 to the coast at Rye, 45 to Hastings and 50 to Tunbridge
Wells.


Schools 

Primaries: St Michael's CofE, Tenterden Infant and Tenterden CofE are
all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: the town's Homewood School is
"good".


Hang out at... 

Try The Woolpack and The White Lion for rather smart country chic and
roaring log fires. The West House in nearby Biddenden for posh.


Where to buy 

The town is long and thin, stretched out along the high street and
Ashford Road up to St Michaels, with few spots far from the town
centre or the countryside. Plenty of wonderful property, which
accounts for the high prices and the fierce competition. Most of the
centre is a conservation area of all manner of styles, from
half-timbered to weatherboarded cottages to Georgian townhouses. Your
usual cul-de-sacs and suburbans; Ox Lane in St Michaels is a
particular favourite. The hinterland is ripe with converted oast
houses and barns. Large detacheds and townhouses, £550,000-£1.75m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £375,000-£550,000. Semis,
£250,000-£500,000. Terraces and cottages, £220,000-£350,000. Few
flats, £175,000-£275,000. Rentals: not much; a three-bedroom house,
£900-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Within walking distance of the high street is a three-bedroom,
neo-Georgian end-of-terrace with a workshop, needing complete
renovation, for £295,000 with jamesoliverestates.co.uk.


From the streets

Sarah Williams 
"A strong community - a dementia-friendly town, with lots of clubs."

Stella Smith 
"Beautiful wide, tree-lined high street, with interesting buildings
and independent shops. La Cantina di Tenterden for first-class Italian
food. Lots of good pubs. Easy access to countryside walks."


Live in Tenterden? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ouseburn, Newcastle upon Tyne? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by next
Tuesday.

 