Let's move to Deptford, south-east London: love it, hate it? Worry not

It will regenerate again before long

Deptford, south-east London

Deptford: 'Not for the faint-hearted.'


What's going for it? 

Deptford has been regenerated. It's like what happens occasionally in
Doctor Who, only with bollards and negroni bars. Like Doctor Who,
regeneration comes accompanied with not a little controversy. And,
like Doctor Who, this is very much not the first time. The
neighbourhood seems to have been in permanent regeneration mode since
Henry VIII stuck his dockyard here. Deptford's latest shape appears to
be Peckhamdalstonhackneyorsomewherelikethat. The old new Deptfords - 
halal butchers, mighty council estates, continental grocers, the
brilliant Albany theatre, the beautiful 18th-century St Paul's church,
the splendid Laban Centre (ah, the Blair years!), two pie-and-mash
shops, stained mattresses and greasy chicken shop wrappers piled on
the pavement - they're all still there, only they've been joined by
"creative spaces" and craft gin bars. The library is called a
"lounge", dressed in gold lame, decking and lattes, with a ball court
on the roof, so you can throw a few hoops with your Proust. Love it,
hate it? Worry not. It'll regenerate again before long.


The case against...

Not for the faint-hearted: it's a vigorous, noisy, traffic-clogged
spot, with little green space and relief, bar a soothing walk along
the sludgy Deptford Creek. Even more regeneration, in the shape of the
vast Convoys Wharf development, awaits.


Well connected? 

An embarrassment. Trains: to London Bridge (six to 11 minutes) and
London Cannon Street (12-15); the other way to Woolwich (15 minutes)
or Abbey Wood (21) for the Elizabeth line; the DLR to Canary Wharf (13
minutes), south to Lewisham (four); the Overground from New Cross to
Canada Water (five) for the Jubilee line, Whitechapel for District and
Hammersmith & City (13 minutes), Shoreditch (15) and beyond. Driving:
the A2 gets very snarly and slow.


Schools 

Primaries: many good ones; Tidemill, Lucas Vale and Invicta are
"outstanding". Secondaries: Addey & Stanhope is "good".


Hang out at...

You can't beat the Dog & Bell. The cafe at the Albany is also lovely.
The food crowd have arrived, courtesy of Deptford Market Yard and
Marcella.


Where to buy 

Something for everyone: 18th-century Georgian streets such as Albury
Street; early Victorian neigbourhoods such as St John's conservation
area; great swathes of often excellent postwar housing and council
estates; and lots of new homes, some "affordable", many "luxury
apartments". Large townhouses, £750,000-£1.2m. Terraces,
£450,000-£750,000. Flats: one-bed, £250,000-£500,000; two,
£250,000-£720,000; three, £350,000-£900,000. Rentals: one-bed
flat, £950-£1,600pcm; three-bed house, £1,700-£2,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

The plus? It's a huge five-bedroom Victorian townhouse needing
updating for £835,000. The minus? It's on the thundering New Cross
Road (acb-london.com).


From the streets

Jamie Merrill 
"The Dirty Apron cafe. Deptford Society, which is trying to preserve
its charm."

Daniel Frampton 
"The most multicultural high street in town."


Live in Deptford? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Eastbourne? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.

 