Let's move to Deal, Kent: these streets have tales to tell

It's as racy, posh, cultured and seedy as Brighton at its best

Deal, Kent: "It's seen it all before. It has history."

What's going for it? 

In his fierce part-memoir of Kentish oddballs, All The Devils Are
Here, David Seabrook describes Charles Hawtrey in his dissolute dotage
– during the long years after Carry On - living on Middle Street
in old-town Deal, but "banned from nearly every pub... Reeling round
town like an old wasted weasel turfed out of Toad Hall." Deal is that
kind of place, as racy, posh, cultured and seedy as Brighton at its
best, only stuck out on the fat belly of Kent as far as possible from
anywhere but Calais, without the hordes. "A villainous place... full
of filthy people," said professional Grinch William Cobbett. What
better recommendation? Recent years have brought the inevitable
artists and gentrifiers, with their Scandi-chic, fussiness about
coffee and disdain for Harvesters. Perhaps they see in Deal the charm
of times passed, without all the rickets and miseries that Seabrook
still spied down its alleyways. But Deal can absorb such newcomers.
It's seen it all before. It has history. Three Tudor castles, Royal
Marine barracks, Julius Caesar, sailors, coalminers, IRA bombs,
Charles Hawtrey. Oh, yes, these streets have tales to tell.

The case against 

I see nothing. It's a touch out on its own, and the local jobs scene
is limited. Not everyone will like its bawdiness, raffishness and
occasional tawdriness.

Well connected? 

Trains: to Margate (29 mins), Whitstable (49 mins) and Rochester (88
mins) one way; and Dover (16 mins), Folkestone (27 mins) and Ashford
(43 mins) the other; the fastest to London St Pancras is 1hr 23 mins.
Driving: 30-45 mins to Ramsgate, Margate and the Isle of Thanet, 45
mins to Canterbury, 20 mins to Dover and the A2.


Schools 

Primaries: Sandown, Sholden CofE, Hornbeam, St Mary's Catholic, Deal
Parochial CofE and the Downs CofE are all "good", Ofsted says, with
Warden House and Kingsdown & Ringwould CofE "outstanding".
Secondaries: the town's new Goodwin Academy has not been inspected
yet.


Hang out at...

Frog and Scot is the justly lauded culinary queen round here. The Rose
is the new kid on the block. The Black Douglas cafe, on the seafront,
for brunch/lunch.


Where to buy 

The old town of narrow streets and whitewashed cottages off Middle
Street, and its higgledy-piggledy seafront Beach Street; it's hushed
and delightful. There's a fine selection of Victorians and Edwardians
surrounding it - especially around Victoria Park - and south to
the plusher, posher, tawdry-free Walmer. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £500,000-£1.4m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£275,000-£500,000. Semis, £200,000-£450,000. Terraces and
cottages, £200,000-£400,000. Flats, £120,000-£450,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £600-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£750-£1,300pcm.

Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom Victorian terrace south of the centre, but near the sea.
In need of serious modernisation; £245,000, with
jenkinsonestates.co.uk.

From the streets

Stephen Rubins 
"Down-from-Londoners are changing the town for the worse."

Kathryn Reilly 
"The people here are brilliantly creative and super-friendly."


Live in Deal? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Colchester? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9 October.


Comments

You forgot to mention the Lorry park if Brexit should occur. That will
not be an attraction and should be included in transport links, no?
Then again, many in Deal probably voted for it. Definitely not a place
to settle if you voted for Remain. Sorry, but even in looking at where
I move next, politics has become an additional factor to consider. I
will jot be moving to Deal and anywhere withing Kent.

We will somehow manage without you.

If it makes you feel any better Kent has already been destroyed by the
M20/HSR corridor and by London local authorities buying up brown field
sights and sending all their tenants to live in Kent. You and the
London incomers would only be fighting over the ashes anyway.

Tunbridge Wells voted remain...

No mention of the wonderful The Just Reproach? Inspired my other half
to open a micropub of her own! We had a wonderful welcome there on a
weekend away a few years ago and it's well worth a visit

In similar circumstances I can heartily agree, although I have to
confess we haven't got round to opening our own micro pub but good
luck with yours in the future.
