Let's move to Lewes, East Sussex: "Once a hotbed of radicalism"

It's calmed down since Thomas Paine's day, but revolution may still
come


Lewis castle and town

Lewes Castle, East Sussex: "Pretty, old and curious."


What's going for it? 

Once upon a time, Lewes was a hotbed of feverish radicalism. That time
was 1772, when the town's excise officer, one Thomas Paine, had had
quite ENOUGH, thank you very much. So cheesed off at work were Tom and
his colleagues, he published The Case Of The Officers Of Excise, a
plea for better working conditions and salaries, and a more select
variety of biscuits in the staff room. Paine and his pals concocted
their shocking thoughts over a few pints in the White Hart Hotel, in
what they called the Headstrong Club. Needless to say they fell on
deaf ears, and two years later Paine was off to America - more
fertile ground for revolt, perhaps, than Sussex - to inspire the
American and French revolutions. As you do.

These days, Lewes's politics are slightly less convulsive. The town
is so pretty, old and curious - all tile-hung cottages with the
whiff of hops on the air from Harvey's Brewery - it could be an
exhibit on Antiques Roadshow. But don't be fooled. The town is full
of Marxist lecturers from Sussex University. They like to burn
effigies of David Cameron at their famous/infamous Bonfire bight. The
Headstrong Club has been revived. And they still print Tom Paine's
scorching pamphlets at a press on the High Street. The revolution may
still come.


The case against 

Not cheap, but then where is round here? A little artsy-provincial
whimsy.


Well connected? 

Trains: six an hour to Brighton (15 mins or so), four to Eastbourne
(25 mins) and three to Hastings (over an hour); two an hour to Gatwick
(35 mins) and London Victoria (75 mins). Driving: 25 mins to Brighton
if the traffic's OK; the south coast "motorway" the A27 passes by,
as unpredictable as the weather.


Schools 

Primaries: all the town's schools, Western Road, Southover CofE, St
Pancras Catholic, South Malling CofE, Wallands, are "good".
Secondaries: Priory School is "good".


Hang out at...

Depot, a new community cinema with space to eat, work, meet, chat.
It's a lovely-old-pub rather than haute-cuisine kind of town (go to
Brighton for the avant garde): The Snowdrop, The Lewes Arms, Pelham
Arms, Gardeners Arms, or the John Harvey.


Where to buy 

Dreamy property in the old centre, the High Street as backbone
tumbling down to the Ouse, with old lanes - twittens - peeling off
either side, and the crumbly old castle on top. Georgians and 18th
century - with hanging tiles and roses round the porch - especially.
Look also south to Southover, north to the Pells. For peachy suburbs
go to Wallands Park with especially nice late Victorians and
Edwardians. Detacheds and townhouses, £500,000-£1.6m. Semis,
£325,000-£800,000. Terraces and cottages, £300,000-£550,000.
Flats, £150,000-£550,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £775-975pcm;
a three-bedroom house, £1,200-£1,850pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom 1960s semi in Ringmer, just outside, £270,000 with
fox‑and-sons.co.uk.


From the streets

Joanne Spiro 
"Pells Pool for an early swim in a beautiful lido. Looking at the
amazing Downs from almost anywhere in Lewes. Bus Club Pizza, above the
50s bus station."

Matthew Hook 
"Union Music Store which is run by people who love music."

Colin Lloyd 
"The revitalised Lewes Rowing Club row on the Ouse."



Live in Lewes? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Abergavenny, Monmouthshire? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
18 September.

 