Let's move to Chester: is that a tiny bit of mojo hiding among the
history?

It's beautiful, occasionally suffocating, but a little bit woke

Chester, Cheshire

Chester, Cheshire: "It's long had a reputation for middlebrow poshness."


What's going for it? 

There's so much past in Chester. It piles up on the streets. It
accumulates. Roman amphitheatre, medieval cathedral, Ruskinian town
hall, all those Tudor black-and-white, half-timbered buildings
straight off a Quality Street tin, all those Victorian
black-and-white, half-timbered buildings pretending to be Tudor
black-and-white, half-timbered buildings straight off a Quality Street
tin, cobbles, ye olde gatehouses, etc. Beautiful. Occasionally
suffocating. (I speak as one raised on cathedral cities.) That's not
to say Chester isn't with it. It's long had a reputation for
middlebrow poshness, all wine bars and pearls. Who knows what
they've put in the water recently, though, as there's a tiny bit
of mojo in the place. Decent coffee has turned up. The lovely new
Storyhouse arts complex has brought contemporary architecture and
cutting-edge culture. It'a even a little bit woke: last year Chester
was crowned the most accessible city in Europe for disabled people. In
Europe! With those cobbles


The case against 

It's pricey, from the property to the cost of living.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Manchester (a rather slow one hour at best), to Liverpool
(48 minutes), to Wrexham (15), to Birkenhead (41) and to Crewe (20).
Driving: an hour to Manchester, 40 minutes to Liverpool, half an hour
to Warrington and the M6.


Schools 

Primaries: most of the city's schools are at least "good",
Ofsted says, with Belgrave, Dee Point, St Martin's academy and
Acresfield "outstanding". Secondaries: the Catholic high, the
Bishops' Blue Coat CofE, Blacon high and Upton-by-Chester high are
"good", with Christleton high, just outside, "outstanding".


Hang out at... 

Chester's having a food moment. For great coffee and cakes, check out
Jaunty Goat and Moss. Find killer food at Joseph Benjamin, Porta and
Sticky Walnut.


Where to buy 

There are some seriously fancy houses here, especially in
Handbridge/Queen's Park and Curzon Park/Hough Green overlooking the
River Dee and the racecourse. Some nice late Victorians to 1930s in
Upton to the north, or inner suburbs such as Hoole, handy for the
station. Nice townhouses of all eras within the city walls. Plenty of
plump modern suburbs such as Great Boughton. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £450,000-£1m and occasionally up to £1.5m. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £170,000-£450,000. Semis,
£120,000-£650,000. Terraces and cottages, £115,000-£375,000.
Flats, £100,000-£500,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£450-£850pcm; a three-bedroom house, £650-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 

OK, so it's £750,000. But this six-bedroom Victorian mansion, close
to the centre, in need of modernisation, with period details-a-go-go,
is a bargain of sorts, with hinchliffeholmes.co.uk.


From the streets

Jeremy Johnston 
"Sunday lunch at Artichoke, in a former mill on the canalside (book ahead)."

Emma-Jane Mills 
"The zoo! It's brilliant for kids and has really natural environments for the animals."


Live in Chester? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Warwick? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 4 December.


Comments

Must be a different Chester to the one I live in. With it's city
center full of homeless people, Pot holes in the roads deep enough to
damage wheels or cause a cyclist to come off, Drug Dealers openly
selling on the streets plus the constant smell of cannabis in the air
(especially in Blacon), Fly tipping to the point that there is more
rubbish in the hedgerows than in the tip; and the police are as rare
as Bobby Horse Muck, except of course when there is a dignitary
visiting, then there is a swam of them.

Oh, nearly forgot to mention, the RAW sewage that is regularly
released in to the River Dee.

Well, at least it's 'woke'.

You paint a sad picture.

Generally a very good place to live in. A Goldilocks city, small
enough to be liveable, large enough to have amenities. The train to
London is 2 hours. As mentioned trains to Manchester and Manchester
airport are far too slow. HS2 money would be better spent on that....
Also we have the site of the UKs largest Roman amphitheatre but you
would hardly know it. Let's hope we can finally get something done
about it!

s