Let's move to Halifax, West Yorkshire: gutsy streetscape and deadpan locals

There is a music scene. Vinyl shops have been spotted. Avocado toast
is for sale. But Halifax remains Halifax

Halifax's Piece Hall

Halifax's Piece Hall, a vast Georgian cloth hall straight out of an
imperial Ccentral European capital.


What’s going for it? 

"The Shoreditch of the north", said BBC Radio 6 Music. "What?!" yelled
Halifax - and the rest of the world. They groaned on the information
desk at the smart new library when I brought it up. It is not. And the
better for it. Sure, the anointed king of hipsters, Father John Misty,
played Halifax. There is a music scene. Vinyl shops have been spotted.
Avocado toast is for sale. There are ironic whiskers here and there,
but many commute to Leeds, Hebden Bridge or Manchester, where property
prices are less kind. No, Halifax remains Halifax, with its gutsy
streetscape, excellent Borough Market (the hot pies!) and deadpan
locals. It has just had a bit of cash spent on it for the first time
in an age. The new library. The Square Chapel arts centre, with its
natty roof. And the piece de resistance, the restored Piece Hall, a
vast Georgian cloth hall straight out of an imperial central European
capital. Halifax, the Vienna of Yorkshire. That is more like it.


The case against 

Very little, really, if you ignore the hype. More investment in the
local economy would go down a treat, but the bone structure of the
town remains excellent. Wet, of course, this being the Pennines. And
(in my opinion) scandalously far from the seaside.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: to Bradford (13-15 minutes), Leeds (35-40), Hebden
Bridge (11-15), Burnley (33), Blackburn (52) and Manchester (48-56).
Driving: the M62 passes just south; 30 minutes to Hebden Bridge,
Huddersfield, Leeds, Bradford and the Peak District; an hour to
Manchester.


Schools 

Primaries: among many good, says Ofsted, Lee Mount, Beech Hill,
Parkinson Lane, Savile Park, Copley, All Saints CofE and Siddal are
"outstanding". Secondaries: Halifax Academy is "good", with North
Halifax Grammar, Trinity CofE and Crossley Heath Grammar
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

It's tough to find, tucked down lanes, but the Shibden Mill Inn is
country pub perfection.


Where to buy 

South and west are best, especially Savile Park, where enormous and
beautiful Victorians and Edwardians go for decent prices. It is also
nice in Skircoat Green and out west towards Warley. And there are some
great 18th- and 19th-century farmhouses at the edge. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £350,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£150,000-£350,000. Semis, £75,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages,
£50,000-£350,000. Flats, £40,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £300-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house, £400-£750pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Four-bedroom interwar semi with offroad parking in Savile Park,
£180,000, with reedsrains.co.uk.


From the streets

Mark Mckay 
"Grayson Unity is a lovely bar that puts on gigs. It does a good pie,
too."

Lyn Holmes 
"Great coffee, cakes and atmosphere at CafeZone."


Live in Halifax? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Weston-super-Mare? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16 July.

 