Let's move to Bangor, County Down: cheery charm and Belfast's smart set

If you want a marina of yachts or kiss-me-quick seaside, this is the
place for you


Bangor marina, County Down

Bangor marina, County Down: "This area has long been nicknamed the
Gold Coast."


What's going for it? 

Bangor is quite the surprise. I'm not sure what I was expecting but
I think it involved grey pebbledash. The town is full of cheer.
Victorian townhouses painted the colour of sweeties. Freshly paved
streets with perky new trees, as if civic dignitaries were expecting
the Queen on Tuesday. Being a seaside town in the British Isles, it
has that inevitable double edge of joy and sorrow, but here joy gets
the upper hand. Partly that's down to wealth. This area has long
been nicknamed the Gold Coast, pulling in Belfast's rich for more
than a century. While we're not quite talking Malibu rich, the town
has its share of hefty piles and la-di-da. You'll have to travel a
few minutes out of town for decent beaches. Bangor's petite bay
cuddles a marina of yachts straight out of Howards' Way (extremely
woke contemporary cultural reference there). Much of the town, though,
is more your bucket-and-spade-kiss-me-quick seaside, and all the
better for it.

Pickie Puffer, the miniature steam train that chuffs through Pickie
Fun Park, is a particular high spot. Who says I don't know how to
have fun?



The case against 

Quite pricey, by local standards.


Well connected? 

Trains: half-hourly to Belfast (40 mins). Driving: on the A2 to
Belfast (30 mins) and beyond to Belfast airport (45 mins).


Schools 

Primaries: Crawfordsburn and St Malachy's are "good", says ETI
Northern Ireland, with Ballyholme, Kilmaine and Towerview "very
good" and St Comgall's "outstanding"; strike action prevented
the latest reports at Grange Park, Bloomfield and Rathmore.
Secondaries: Bangor grammar is mostly "good", St Columbanus' was
top ranked; strikes again prevented the latest inspection of Bangor
Academy.


Hang out at...

Bangor Bay lobster at the Boat House? Or how about a nice pint at the
oldest pub in town, Jenny Watts?


Where to buy 

A good wodge of seasidey Victorian townhouses and villas in gay
colours, such as around Dufferin Avenue, Bryansburn Road and Farnham
Road; and a denser, villagey nook by the quay around Holborn Avenue.
Big piles lurk westwards, especially the avenues around Princetown
Road. South has pleasant suburbs on and off Gransha Road and
Ballycrochan Road. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£300,000-£550,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£175,000-£300,000. Semis, £120,000-£250,000. Terraces and
cottages, £70,000-£150,000. Flats, £60,000-£150,000. Rentals: not
that much around; a two-bedroom flat, £450-£650pcm.


Bargain of the week 

This is a bargain - a one-bed terrace house "priced for
modernisation", £45,000, with reedsrains.co.uk.


From the streets

Jackie Savage
"I love the Salty Dog and Jamaica Inn. Best of all are the gorgeous
coastal walks."

Simon Bridge
"Bangor is one of four places in Ireland named on the medieval
Hereford Mappa Mundi, so, as a port, it has linked County Down to the
rest of the world. The Guillemot for its breakfasts and lunches."


Live in Bangor? Join the debate below.

Do you live in King's Lynn? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 11 December.


Comments

Let's not.

Completely off the point but seriously important - does moving get you an Irish passport?

It is in UK

Don't. It's dismal. A town run by the DUP for years. What more can you say about it?

You're right this ain't no seaside town, it was until the council
ruined it. No beach, no shops except coffee houses or charity shops,
bring back lairds boats

There was never any beach in the town itself. The real beach was at
Ballyholme, and the best coast was at Bangor West.

