Let's move to Littlehampton, West Sussex: "A surreal mishmash"

Several eras have left an imprint on this south-coast seaside resort,
right up to today's star architects

Littlehampton harbour

Littlehampton, West Sussex: "A curious place."


What's going for it? 

What will future historians make of Littlehampton? It's a curious
place, stitched together from various patches that align but somehow
don't connect. At its centre, an old Sussex port on the River Arun,
church, quayside, winding lanes and still intact. To the south, facing
the sea, a 19th-century resort from the era when salt water and
bracing breezes were the cure for all ills. To the west, the dunes and
silence of Atherington beach. East? 1920s and 1930s private estates of
luxury villas, high walls and climbing roses, as if the upper crust
cast of various Agatha Christie whodunnits had settled en masse. Laid
over the top, a layer of 1930s to 1960s municipal seasideness -
seawalls, proms, concrete, the marvellous bleached-white shelters of
Mewsbrook Park, the miniature railway terminus. Here and there,
arrivals from the era of regeneration and seaside gentrification
(Littlehampton has never quite become the new Margate), designed by
assorted young and star architects. It makes for bizarre
juxtapositions, sur real even. Littlehampton is a curious place. But
all the better for it.


The case against...

That English south-coast bleakness, the sea often "indistinguishable
from the sky", as Virginia Woolf once put it. Still old-fashioned,
in good and bad senses.


Well connected? 

Trains: half hourly to Brighton 53 mins (there's a more frequent
train to Hove, around 36 mins) and to London Victoria (1hr 45mins) via
Gatwick Airport (1hr 12 mins); hourly to Chichester (17mins) and
Portsmouth (57mins) Driving: you're a few minutes from the A27 dual
carriageway. Brighton can be 50mins away, Chichester 30mins,
Portsmouth 45mins.


Schools 

Primaries: River Beach, White Meadows, St Catherine's Catholic,
Summerlea and East Preston are all "good", says Ofsted.
Secondaries: Littlehampton Academy "requires improvement."


Hang out at... 

Will it be East Beach Cafe, by one hot architecture firm (Heatherwick
Studio), or West Beach Cafe, by another (Asif Khan)? Choices, choices.



Where to buy 

Got a million or two? Then East Preston's for you, preferably the
seafront. This end of town is full of private estates of weighty
villas. It's all a bit Southfork, though you may spot some more
affordable options (they tend to be smaller bungalows). Rustington is
more affordable. I prefer the older town. There's a little village
heart around Church Street and towards the river and quayside. And by
Beach Road and around, late Victorians and Edwardian townhouses. A
spot of Regency on South Terrace. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£3.5m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£275,000-£450,000. Semis, £225,000-£500,000. Terraces and
cottages, £200,000-£500,000. Flats, £80,000-£500,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £500-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£900-£1,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A very pretty four-bedroom 19th-century flint cottage in the town
centre, £295,000 with glyn-jones.com.


From the streets

Geraldine Blake
"Portuguese Grill: lovely, friendly staff. And Littlehampton ferry:
loads of fun for all the family. Crosses the River Arun and takes you
up to Arundel."

Steve Bentley
"For an excellent curry, try Raj Doot, looking out on to the river
Arun. A gem."


Live in Littlehampton? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Somers Town, London? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 18
December.


Comments

A few of the important bits of the A27 are not dual carriageway. You
can get stuck on them for hours.

and getting round Chichester on the dualled bit is roundabout hell

