Let's move to Spalding, Lincolnshire: there's that slightly bleak Fenland feel

The countryside is all Mondrian fields of peas, tulip bulbs and
potatoes, sliced up by long, straight, grey-watered dykes


Pub on banks of River Welland, Spalding, Lincs

Spalding, Lincs: 'It's keeping its head above water.'


What's going for it? 

With my surname, I always fancy that one of my ancestors was up this
way some time in the 17th century, dressed in muddied breeches, my
dyke-building great-great-great-etc-grandads coming over from
Middelburg in the Netherlands to show the Brits how to drain the
splodgy Fens. To this day, Spalding seems to have more in common with
Holland than Holland Park. The countryside is all Mondrian fields of
peas, tulip bulbs and potatoes, sliced up by long, straight,
grey-watered dykes, drawing the eye to infinity. In town, the river
Welland masquerades as a canal, its banks bordered by grand, lofty,
18th-century townhouses that might have come straight out of a
Rembrandt. No edam, but there is the occasional whiff of weed. And
until the Coalition cuts bit in 2013, Spalding had its own Tulip
Parade, with flower-floats of gigantic elephants, Mr Kipling fondant
fancies or Chinese dragons. H2O, round here, as in the Netherlands, is
both enemy and income source. The town is keeping its head above
water, in every sense, but only just.


The case against 

Isolation: you're very much out on your own out here by the Wash.
There's that slightly bleak Fenland feel, which you'll either love or
hate. Much of the town centre is humdrum: it's nicest along the
Welland and the east side of town. Folks round here are yet to see how
the agricultural economy will be affected by Brexit.


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to the mainline at Peterborough (21 minutes) and the
other way to Lincoln (one hour). Driving: 30 minutes to Peterborough,
40 to the A1 at Stamford.


Schools 

Primaries: among several Ofsted-rated "good" schools, St Norbert's
Catholic is "outstanding". Secondaries: Spalding Grammar is "good",
with Spalding High "outstanding".

Hang out at...

George Adams & Sons butchers: join the queue for one of their
hand-raised pork pies, "made on the premises".


Where to buy 

Stick close to the banks of the Welland, with their often exquisite
18th- and 19th-century (and occasionally 17th-century) townhouses, and
the old town to the east around Church Street. The rest of the place
is more ordinary, though for decent suburbans head north-west around
Pinchbeck Road and Woolram Wygate. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£330,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£180,000-£330,000. Semis, £120,000-£250,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£200,000. Flats, £70,000-£200,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £400-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£675-£850pcm.


Bargain of the week 

No Georgians at the moment, alas. This three-bedroom inter-war semi
needs renovation; £125,000, with muntonandrussell.co.uk.


From the streets

David Jones 
"Ayscoughfee Hall. And Hills department store cafe, with views of the
river Welland."

Finbar Murphy 
"Rather chilly in the winter. For a day out, Nottingham is not too
far."


Live in Spalding? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Truro? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20 March.


Comments

I have to say, this sounds by some margin the most boring place you've
ever reviewed. Even Gaboogle wouldn't live here.

Too middle class.

And what is wrong with being middle class?

And we can use our massive unearned profits on our London home to
price the locals out of their own market.

Hear the rage and envy seeping out. Get a grip, a life, an original
thought.

He's right to say that , we are sick of having our lives ruined by the
rich who make homes too expensive for many ordinary people.

Theresa May is a liar. That's not an original thought but it's worth
saying. The world is round. That's not an original thought but it's
accurate.

