Let's move to Eastbourne, East Sussex: 'Things may be changing'

Downshifting Generation X-ers and millennials are moving in and I
suspect they won't be entirely satisfied by sweet sherry

Eastbourne, East Sussex

Eastbourne: 'Its population is getting younger.'


What's going for it? 

I'm sure lots of dirty - even depraved - things go on in Eastbourne,
but you'd never know it. The only time it threatened to get "a
reputation" was in the 1950s, when local GP John Bodkin Adams went on
trial for allegedly murdering elderly patients, but he was found not
guilty. A close shave. Like its most famous daughter, Theresa May, the
town has perfected its poker face. Chaos may reign, but the facade
remains resolute. Perhaps at 7pm after a sherry or five, Eastbourne
erupts into twerking and Jaegerbombs. On the surface, though, it's all
gentle pleasures, high hedges and municipal borders, Eric Ravilious
and toasted teacakes, and that astonishingly beautiful waterfront. It
leaves the showing off to its neighbour round the corner, Brighton.
Things, though, may be changing. Eastbourne's gentleness has long
attracted retirees; but its population is getting younger.
Downshifting Generation X-ers and millennials are moving in and I
suspect they won't be entirely satisfied by sweet sherry. Eastbourne
may get racy.


The case against 

Thanks to miasmas gusting across the Channel, Eastbourne is one of the
UK's worst towns for particulate pollution. Most of it is delightful,
but the stretch around the Arndale Centre is rather dreary.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Hastings (26-36 mins), Brighton (33-43 mins), Ashford (69
mins), London Victoria (90 mins) via Gatwick Airport (52-61mins).
Driving: 50-60 mins to Brighton, an hour to Crawley and the M23.


Schools 

Primaries: among many "good", says Ofsted, Gildredge House is
"outstanding". Secondaries: The Cavendish, Eastbourne Academy,
Gildredge House, Willingdon Community and St Catherine's CofE are
"good".


Hang out at...

Fusciardi's ice-cream parlour, of course. The Mirabelle, though wear
your tux. The Lamb Inn in the Old Town serves a fine Sussex ale.


Where to buy 

Really excellent homes. Mostly Edwardian or late Victorian, after
Eastbourne was cobbled together from four hamlets when the railway
arrived. In the centre, Little Chelsea is nice, and, west, those
avenues of large stucco townhouses. Meads, Old Town and Holywell are
poshest, with large detacheds and villas. East of the centre has
late-Victorian and Edwardian townhouses in Redoubt up to Roselands.
Ratton and Willingdon (especially the "village") for the burbs. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£1.25m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £300,000-£400,000. Semis, £200,000-£700,000. Terraces
and cottages, £160,000-£400,000. Flats, £100,000-£550,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £550-£750pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£850-£1,450pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A four-bedroom period semi in the centre, needing refurbishment,
£270,000 with beeshomes.com.


From the streets

Stuart Reid 
"The reputation of 'God's waiting room' applies to about one road in
the whole town. Loads of people moving from London and farther afield
(we moved from Oxford four years ago) as it's a great place for young
families. It's not Brighton, but Brighton is just down the road."

Will Weaver 
"The coffee and brunch at the independent Nelson's, oppposite the
station, are incredible. Visit the Fuse Box at the Towner Gallery,
which ties in a kids' play area with the exhibitions on show."


Do you live in Stockport, Greater Manchester? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
27 March.



Comments

No one including me can think of a single thing to say about Eastbourne.

I can think of someone who will.

No one including me can think of a single thing to say about
Eastbourne.

Then it must be absolutely fine then.

Or could be that the majority of the population is not very internet
aware/ over 80/ don't care
