Let's move to Beverley, east Yorkshire: a delight from market square
to city limits

Beverley's minstrels used to be quite the thing in the 14th century,
like One Direction with lutes

Beverley in Yorkshire

Beverley: "It hasn't been buggered about with."



What's going for it? 

I tell you, the misericords of Beverley Minster! You have never seen
the like. And don't get me started on the stone carving. Oh, go on
then: Beverley's minstrels used to be quite the thing in the 14th
century, like One Direction with lutes, their fame preserved for
posterity in limestone, drummers, pipers and hornblowers emerging from
the minster's surfaces in full song. If I lived in Beverley, I'd visit
this astonishing church - without compare anywhere in Britain - 
every day.

Even if you're not a fan of early English ecclesiastical architecture
- shame! - Beverley is the bees' knees, one of those towns that's a
delight from market square to city limits. Its chief fault - 
relative isolation - is the key to its chief attribute: not having
been buggered about with. Despite the occasional boutique hotel and
the arrival of quinoa, Beverley's character, I imagine, is much the
same as it was when its minstrels were riding high in the pop charts.


The case against 

That relative isolation: you have Hull for company, but otherwise you
are tucked away off the beaten track. Expansion has long been
threatened.


Well connected? 

Trains: Hull (16 mins) one way, Scarborough the other (72-83 mins),
via Bridlington. There's an hourly bus to York (75 mins). Driving:
half an hour to Hull, the coast at Hornsea and the M62.


Schools 

Primaries: many good, with Molescroft and Swinemoor "outstanding".
Secondaries: Longcroft, Beverley High (girls) and Beverley Grammar
(boys - and the oldest state school in England) are all "good".


Hang out at...

The Pipe and Glass, just outside Beverley in South Dalton, is rightly
lauded, but there are plenty of picks in town, too: Whites, The King's
Head and The White Horse for starters.


Where to buy 

Anywhere in the old centre. Beverley is a cathedral city in all but
cathedral, its slow evolution having bestowed a fine range of period
homes, with an especially good line in red-pantiled Georgians. The
plummest are on and off Lairgate and New Walk, York Road towards
Beverley Westwood and up towards Molescroft, where it gets more
(nicely) suburban. There are good family homes on the roads out of
town, such as Victoria Road. Large detacheds and townhouses:
£350,000-£850,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses:
£200,000-£350,000. Semis: £150,000-£325,000. Terraces and
cottages: £120,000-£200,000. Flats: £85,000-£250,000. Rentals:
one-bedroom flat: £425-£525pcm; three-bedroom house: £600-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom interwar semi, needs modernising, but a steal at
£120,000 with williamhbrown.co.uk.



From the streets

David Weaver 
"The sea, at Hornsea, is only 13 miles away and ideal to cycle to (no
hills). The town is fast becoming the 'foodie' centre of the East
Riding, while the minster's beauty surpasses that of York Minster."

Ray Bleazard 
"At Cafe Velo, you can sit surrounded by cycling memorabilia while
watching classic races on the screens."



Live in Beverley? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Exeter? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 30 January.

 

Comments

The town is fast becoming the ‘foodie' centre of the East Riding,

At Cafe Velo, you can sit surrounded by cycling memorabilia while watching classic races on the screens.

Let's go.

Unexpectedly rebranded in January 2018: Childhood home of Kyle Edmund. (She says, phrasing it carefully).

As for 'East Riding', replace with North Humberside.

Beverley has been in the East Riding of Yorkshire since 1 April 1996. Humberside was imposed on the East Riding and only existed as a county between 1 April 1974 until 31 March 1996.

Gaboogle has undoubtedly lived here. Let's wait to hear what he has to say, especially about the number of middle-class people there, before making a decision.

Does Yorkshire have a middle class? Surely far too straight talking...

Yorkshire does, but Beverley is middle class Humberside NOT Yorkshire .
 