Let's move to Portobello, Edinburgh: 'It has a Rio-like promenade'

Sand, sea ... shame about the climate


Portobello beach, Edinburgh

Portobello, Edinburgh: 'All the best cities have a seaside.'


What's going for it? 

I always forget Edinburgh has a seaside. This would make the city
perfect (all the best cities have a seaside), were it not for the
distinctly un-Rio-like climate. Instead it's almost perfect. For,
although Portobello lacks Copacabana and 30C year-round heat, it does
have sandy beaches and a Rio-like promenade peopled with joggers and
lovers arm-in-arm, rollerbladers and scooter kids fronting a sweeping
landscape of knobbly hills and a sea of blue (on a good day). But who
needs balmy seas when you have a newly restored Victorian Turkish
baths to poach in? Who needs the work of Oscar Niemeyer when there are
beautiful 19th-century stone villas? Who needs The Girl From Ipanema
and an ice-cold caipirinha when you can meet the girl from St Andrews
chippy over a bag of scraps and whisk her off for a sundowner pint at
The Espy on the seafront?


The case against 

It's rather cut off from the rest of the city, with the railway
viaducts and the roaring Sir Harry Lauder Road. It feels as if it
needs just a little more love (and money).


Well connected? 

Trains: there's no station; the nearest is in Brunstane, a 15-minute
walk south, which heads to Edinburgh Waverley one way and Galashiels
(half-hourly, 45 minutes) the other. Driving: it's 15 minutes to
central Edinburgh; you're on the A1, so escaping the city is easy.
Buses into town or east towards Joppa, Musselburgh and North Berwick.
You can cycle to central Edinburgh in 20-30 mins.


Schools 

Primaries: no current inspection reports, alas, for the local schools,
Towerbank, St John's RC and Duddingston. The Royal High School.
Secondaries: Portobello High is mostly "satisfactory", says
Education Scotland, though in "raising attainment and achievement"
it's "good".


Hang out at... 

The Espy, on the prom. Otherwise it's got to be fish and chips at St
Andrews on Portobello High Street. Or French/Scottish fusion
brunch/supper at the utterly delightful Skylark.


Where to buy 

There are some excellent stone-built Victorian townhouses and semis in
the roads around Abercorn Park and Terrace, and Rosefield Park,
Brighton Place, Argyle Crescent. Classic Victorian tenements on and
off the High Street. Semis and townhouses, £300,000-£600,000. Flats,
£115,000-£260,000.

Rentals 

Not many; a two- or three-bedroom house, perhaps £1,100-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Studio flat a few minutes from the beach; £88,000, with gsbsolicitors.co.uk.


From the streets

Jude Nixon 
"There are community skiffs run by RowPorty so you can row at dawn."

Graham Currie 
"There's huge community spirit and our kids love it."

Dougal Marwick 
"Skylark is a great venue that hosts gigs, art events and everything
in between."


Do you live in Littlehampton, Sussex? Do you have a favourite haunt or
a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20
November.

Comments

It's a bit twee. Musselburgh is a bit rough around the edges but the
house prices are much cheaper and rail access is better.

The Espy is a great pub though :)

Grew up a mile from Porty and have fond memories of the old open air
pool, the indoor (salt water) pool, the St Andrews chippy and possibly
best of all the library where three library tickets were tickets to
excitement and far off lands and worlds.

The library.

Wherever you are, it's always the best thing for 'excitement and far
off lands and worlds'

Maybe it's a pre-internet thing.

Or a pre-tory 'Big Society' thing.

