Let's move to Southwold, Suffolk: if you buy here, try living here, too

What it's experiencing now is the logical end to gentrification

Southwold lighthouse

Southwold, Suffolk: "Idyllic pubs. Dreamy streets. Astonishing
history."


What's going for it? 

If civil war ever breaks out between baby boomers and millennials,
there's a fair chance it'll begin on Southwold Pier. The pier has
already witnessed "Sandwichgate", when a family munching homemade
sarnies and an elderly couple nibbling cake out of a plastic container
were reprimanded by staff who insisted they eat at the pier's
(somewhat pricey) cafes. The latest skirmish is about property. Prices
and the proportion of second or holiday homes have risen so much that
some think it's reached a tipping point, with distant property
speculators buying up the town and long-time locals priced out
permanently. Southwold, along with Whitstable in Kent, was one of the
first seaside towns to gentrify, in the 1990s. No wonder. It's an
utterly beautiful spot, long lauded by artists and writers from Turner
to WG Sebald. Idyllic pubs. Dreamy streets. Astonishing history. And
don't get me going on the angels in St Edmund's church. But what
it's experiencing now is the logical end to gentrification. So if
you do move there, at least try living there, too.


The case against 

Chronically unaffordable. The delicate balance between protectionism
and nimbyism often wobbles. A little vain. One can have enough of the
50s theme-park feel...


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly buses to Halesworth (30 mins), for hourly trains south
to Ipswich (55 mins), for a change to London; and north to Lowestoft
(36 mins) for a change to Norwich. Driving: 10 minutes to the A12, the
local main road, and an hour to Norwich and Ipswich.


Schools 

Primaries: Southwold "requires improvement", says Ofsted; nearby
Reydon is "good". The nearest secondaries are a schlep: Lowestoft's
Pakefield "requires improvement", East Point Academy, Beccles Free
School and Leiston's Alde Valley are all "good".


Hang out at...

No hanging out allowed, by order of the parish council. But you may
wine and dine at the many fabulous pubs (it's an Adnams town), such
as The Crown, The Harbour Inn and The Lord Nelson. The Solebay Fish
Company is great.


Where to buy 

The architecture is fabulous, from medieval to modern (eg Ash
Sakula's smashing Tibby's Triangle), but it's all heavily
protected and highly priced. There's the old town, a few suburban
streets to the north, and more ordinary (and marginally cheaper)
suburbans in Blackwater and Reydon. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£700,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£300,000-£700,000. Semis, £200,000-£650,000. Terraces and
cottages, £180,000-£550,000. Flats, £225,000-£450,000. Rentals:
not much - a one-bedroom flat perhaps £525pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Or what passes for one here: a four-bed house, close to the seafront,
which is currently two flats and in need of serious upgrading,
£695,000, with halfordwetmore.com.


From the streets

Eleanor Allen 
"Suzie's beach cafe, for freshly brewed coffee, tasty cake, and hot
bacon rolls on the beach."

Faith Dallas 
"Two Magpies Bakery: exceptional bread, pastries, sausage rolls and
sourdough pizza. Pet peeve: you can't take your dog on the main
beach!"

Jane Ackroyd 
"Second home owners are making the place a ghost town out of season
(and often not paying rates through some wheeze). Seagulls wake you up
at 3am, making the most unholy racket."


Live in Southwold? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Grange-over-Sands or Cartmel? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 11
September.

 