Let's move to Surrey Quays, London

It's quiet and relatively affordable right now - but about to get
very busy

Greenland Dock, Rotherhithe, south-east London

Surrey Quays: they've come up with a new plan...


What's going for it? 

This corner of south-east London has been "regenerated" once before.
In the 1980s, red-braced developers magicked what was once Surrey
Commercial Docks into the quainter-sounding Surrey Quays, eradicating
the embarrassing past of manual labour with a Thatcherite Alphaville
of suburban yellow-brick houses, cul-de-sacs and Frankie & Benny's.
It was a banal vision of the future, compared with the area's heroic
past: mac ' n' cheese or BBQ chicken pizza rather pales beside
trading whales with Greenland, hauling forests from the Baltic, giving
the Pilgrim Fathers a send-off, etc etc. So they've come up with a
new plan. Worry not, nostalgists for the 80s: the Barratt homes and
marinas are staying, as is Printworks, which once churned out Daily
Mails, but now churns out EDM for the clubbing masses. But lo: the
developer behind King's Cross's regeneration, in one of the
biggest planning applications, like, ever, has envisioned for the rest
of Surrey Quays a 3bn future of skyscrapers and piazzas. I'm sure
they'll throw in a few creative hubs and artisan coffee roasters for
good measure.


The case against 

Can you survive years and years of building work? More to the point,
are the future plans worth sticking around for? For the moment the
area is pretty quiet, often underpowered and suburban, especially
towards the river. Nice nature reserve, mind, and Southwark Park is
delightful.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: Surrey Quays, Rotherhithe and Canada Water are on the
Overground (Shoreditch 12 mins, Dalston 18 mins, Peckham 9 mins);
Canada Water is also on the Jubilee line (Bond Street 12 mins,
Stratford 15 mins). Driving: it's less clogged than Old Kent Road to
the south, but gets busy around Rotherhithe Tunnel.


Schools 

Primaries: Peter Hills with St Mary's & St Paul's CofE, St
John's RC, Deptford Park, Southwark Park and Rotherhithe are all
"good", says Ofsted, with Redriff, Albion and St Joseph's RC
"outstanding". Secondaries: Oasis Academy South Bank is "outstanding".
Bacon's College (CofE) has yet to be inspected.


Hang out at...

Mama Pho's been serving excellent Vietnamese for years. Canada Water
Cafe is a newer arrival: good coffee and cakes.


Where to buy 

It being mostly water till the 1970s, Surrey Quays is largely an
80s/90s affair of yellow-brick apartment blocks, townhouses and
terraces. You'll find stretches of converted Victorian warehouses,
19th- and 20th-century terraces and postwar estates, too, and they are
fairly "affordable" (in London terms) for this central a postcode.
Large townhouses, £700,000-£1.25m. Terraces and cottages,
£450,000-£700,000. Flats: one bedroom, £275,000-£700,000; two
bedrooms, £325,000-£1m; three bedrooms, £350,000-£1.25m. Rentals:
a one-bedroom flat, £1,100-£2,200pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£2,000-£3,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A two-bedroom Dutch barge on Greenland Dock, £105,000 (with £8,400
annual mooring fees) with boatshed.com


From the streets

Hugh Closs 
"Lots of reasons to like Surrey Quays, from Surrey Docks Farm and
Russia Dock Woodland to films at Sands Films studio on Tuesdays."

Mark Say 
"It's on a peninsula, so there's little trafic for inner London."


Live in Surrey Quays? Join the debate below.


Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email
lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 3 July.

 

