Let's move to Truro, Cornwall: it has moments of magnificence

People lust after the Cornish coast, forgetting there are perfectly
smashing spots like Truro a short drive from sandy coves

High Cross in front of the Cathedral, Truro,

Truro, Cornwall: ‘Its virtue lies in gentle pleasures.'



What's going for it? 

It's very nice, Truro. That sounds like damning with faint praise, but
it's not. In this age of Twitter trolls and sharpened elbows, niceness
is an underrated virtue. Truro has its moments of magnificence - its
neo-gothic Victorian cathedral, perhaps, three spires stretched to the
clouds. But its real virtue lies in gentler pleasures: handsome
streets of stone terraces speckled with palm trees, a pasty in the
Pannier Market, the geography of deep creeks and folded hills, its
Trollopean cultural life of recitals and food festivals. People always
lust after the coast in Cornwall, forgetting that there are perfectly
smashing spots like Truro a short drive away from sandy coves, and a
world away from tourist coaches, overpriced fishing villages and
Hooray Henrys. This is your reminder.


The case against 

It's a small city, so as always in Cornwall, competition for homes is
tough; its geography of hills and valleys gums up the traffic
something rotten.


Well connected? 

Trains: half-hourly to Falmouth (21 mins), to Penzance (36-44 mins),
St Austell (16 mins) and Plymouth (about 75 mins). Driving: 30 mins to
Falmouth, 20 to 30 mins to coves at St Agnes or sand at Gerrans Bay,
45 mins to St Ives or Penzance.


Schools 

Primaries: Bosvigo, Tregolls and Archbishop Benson CofE are all
"good", says Ofsted, with St Mary's CofE "outstanding". Secondaries:
Penair and Richard Lander are "good"; plus the independent Truro
School and Truro High.


Hang out at...

Bone China, a quirky vintage-style cafe/restaurant that specialises in
cocktails in teacups and tapas platters.


Where to buy 

Oh me oh my, some lovely homes. Great streets of sturdy stone
terraces, delightful late Regency townhouses and Victorian villas. Top
billing, though, goes to the gorgeous stone Georgians on Lemon Street,
which morphs into Regency and Victorian villas on Falmouth Road. Look
north, too, between Carvoza Road and Mitchell Hill, and Tregolls Road,
and west on and off Chapel Hill. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £250,000-£450,000.
Semis, £170,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages,
£150,000-£425,000. Flats, £450,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£575-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house, £725-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Look at this tile-hung, three-bedroom detached cottage - yours for
£159,950 with philip-martin.co.uk.


From the streets

Jill Carr 
"The tidal river and sea birds reminds you that Truro was once a
thriving quayside town."

Rodney Tinson 
"A small gem of a city surrendered to the car in the 1950s, when its
port was paved over to provide parking space. Now blighted by traffic
and thoughtless sixties architecture."

Tania Williams 
"Primark, Wilko et al threaten the independent spirit of our big
Little City."



Do you live in Halifax? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 15 May
