Let's move to Lichfield, Staffordshire: as middle England as you can get

A fabulous cathedral, Morris dancers, red-brick Georgian houses: this
place is so English that even Samuel Johnson, the man who defined the
nation, lived here

Lichfield, Staffordshire

Lichfield, Staffordshire: 'The last place in the land to burn people
at the stake.'


What's going for it? 

I doubt you'll find a more English place in the country. This is quite
literally Middle England. I remember a wall plaque here when I was a
kid that said the city was the farthest place from the sea. That's how
middley it is, the very heart of our body politic. You're a long way
from Bognor, let alone Brussels. Beyond the fabulous three-spired
cathedral, it's all bunting, red-brick and half-timbered Fat Faces.
Morris dancers have been sighted. Its ancient history is all
Anglo-Saxons and Hygeberhts. Its rollcall of famous residents include
such English stalwarts as Anna Seward, Erasmus Darwin, David Garrick
and the man who defined the English, Samuel Johnson, who dubbed the
locals "the most sober, decent people in England". Though it was the
last place in the land to burn people at the stake, so be warned.


The case against 

As you know, I love a cathedral city, though this one's a bit too far
from the sea for me. Not very cosmopolitan, though they compensate
with some splendid city festivals.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: two stations, with hourly trains from Lichfield Trent
Valley to London Euston (95 minutes) and to Stoke (40); four an hour
from Lichfield City to Birmingham New Street (35 minutes). Driving:
the M6 whips past. It's just over half an hour to Birmingham, with
Leicester, Loughborough and Derby an hour.


Schools 

Primaries: Charnwood, St Peter & St Paul Catholic, Scotch Orchard, St
Chad's CofE, Christ Church CofE, St Michael's CofE and St Joseph's
Catholic are all "good", Ofsted says, with Willows "outstanding".
Secondaries: King Edward VI and The Friary are "good".

Hang out at 

The (teeny) Whippet Inn micropub, with its locally sourced ales, is
fabulous.


Where to buy 

The centre has a plump choice of red-brick Georgiana, from cottages to
townhouses, the streets around the Cathedral Close especially. Beacon
Street out of town for period townhouses and semis; nearby Anson Lane
and Gaia Lane for detacheds. The city has ballooned in recent times,
so has a surfeit of exec estates. Poshest are south - close, but not
too close, to the M6, and off London Road: try Borrowcop Lane or
Shortbutts Lane. Large detacheds and townhouses, £350,000-£850,000.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £250,000-£350,000. Semis,
£200,000-£375,000. Terraces and cottages, £165,000-£300,000.
Flats, £90,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £500-£850pcm; a
three-bed house, £750-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bed postwar terrace, £179,950, dixonsestateagents.co.uk.


From the streets

Sarah Wilks 
"Emporium Gallery is a gem of a double-fronted shop, full of unusual
art, from paintings and jewellery to pottery and sculpture."

Alison Churchill 
"Has its own Speakers' Corner, the second to be established outside
London."

Ruth Kennedy-Green 
"Bore Street Bakery, but get there early if you want any bread!"



Live in Lichfield? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Deptford, south-east London? Do you have a favourite
haunt or pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9
January.

