Let's move to Openshaw, Manchester: a great location

Great schools, decent parks, a tight community and, on paper, good
prospects

Openshaw, Manchester

Openshaw, Manchester: "It has substantial challenges."


What's going for it? 

With London's property market closed to anyone earning less than a
squillion a day, the early thirtysomethings are leaving the capital.
They've scarpered to Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle. So
while London's property prices have flatlined, those in other big
cities are rising, and they're rising fastest in the once-cheapest
spots: Birmingham's Ladywood, Edinburgh's Holyrood, Glasgow's
Finnieston, and Openshaw, where prices have soared by 13%. Average
home prices here are £126,553 still less than half that of Manchester
as a whole. This is a neighbourhood that's had - and has - substantial
challenges. But, like Ladywood, Holyrood and Finnieston, it has a
great location pretty close to the city centre (and to the M60 for
escape) and a long period of fairly sustained investment. Up the road
is the National Cycling Centre and Manchester City's Etihad stadium.
There's a new civic hub and a Metrolink tramline. Openshaw's got great
schools, decent parks, a tight community and, on paper, good
prospects. But I won't lie: you're not in Kansas/Ancoats any more,
Toto.


The case against 

Openshaw is one of the most deprived spots in the country. It will
need more sustained investment to see it prosper.


Well connected? 

Yes. Trains: local suburban trains pass by Gorton to the south a
couple of times an hour to Manchester Piccadilly in 8 minutes;
Metrolink tram lines 3 and 7 run to the north, along Ashton New Road,
getting you to Piccadilly; and to Ashton-under-Lyne the other way.
Buses galore, too, to central Manchester and Ashton. Driving: 10
minutes to the M60, and 15 to central Manchester.


Schools 

Primaries: St Barnabas CofE, Higher Openshaw Community and nearby
Seymour Road are all "good", says Ofsted, with Varna Community, St
Francis RC and nearby Ravensbury "outstanding". Secondaries: Droylsden
is "good", with Fairfield High for Girls and Wright Robinson
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

I had a great pizza at Le Delicatezze di Bruno. The Monastery in
Gorton does a fine tea.


Where to buy 

Modern townhouses and apartments are at the top of the market, many up
by the canal. There are streets of well-built brick interwar semis and
Victorian terraces off Ashton Old Road - nicest, perhaps, around
Delamere Park. Townhouses, £150,000-£200,000. Semis,
£120,000-£150,000. Terraces and cottages, £80,000-£135,000. Flats,
£90,000-£160,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £450-£675pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £600-£700pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Plenty. Terraces are especially affordable. There is a two-bedder, at
£100,000, with Space 4 Living (0161-468 0754).


From the streets

Peter Taylor: 
"It's pretty deprived. The main draw is the new Morrisons at Lime
Square."

John Stone: 
"A 15-minute bike ride and you're in the centre of Manchester."



Live in Openshaw? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Leytonstone? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 21 August.

 