Let's move to Callander and the Trossachs: "Magical countryside"

It looks like Disney bought up the place and squished the whole of
Scotland into a few square miles

Callander and the Trossachs

Callander and the Trossachs: "Peaks and mountains. Forests. Lochs.
Glens."


What's going for it? 

"The Highlands in miniature", they call it, and, true enough, the
Trossachs (great name, by the way), do look as if Disney had come
along, bought up the place and squished the whole of Scotland into a
few square miles. Peaks and mountains (though not scarily high).
Forests. Lochs. Glens. Dramatic ruins on mystical islands. Copious
shops selling tartanned tins of shortbread and humorous bagpiping
trolls. Dramatic, mysterious yet wistful histories of doughty locals
valiantly holding out against evil overlords. The Rob Roy Experience
in Callander closed some time ago, alas, but the spell of
"Scotland's Robin Hood" hangs over the place; not least because
every stone and cul-de-sac seems to be named after him. Instead of
Uncle Walt, the Trossachs had Sir Walter Scott, who mythologised the
place in his writing. Rightly so, because once the theme park closes
and the coach parties, hikers, mountain bikers and lovers of humorous
bagpiping trolls go home, for most of the year it's a fabulous,
beautiful spot (the Falls of Moness!), with endless expanses of the
most magical countryside in Scotland's first national park. And,
best of all, you have the whole place to yourself. And Rob Roy. You
can't escape Rob Roy.


The case against 

The theme park. In high season you will curse the queues of
coaches/mountain bikers/hikers/lovers of humorous bagpiping trolls.
The place is so close to the central belt of Scotland that 4 million
people visit the national park each year, and leave their litter
behind.


Well connected? 

Trains: nope. Driving: 30 mins to Stirling for trains, and an hour or
so to Glasgow or Perth. Buses connect local towns but don't expect
many, hourly to Stirling (45 mins).


Schools 

Primaries: no recent inspection reports, alas, for Callander,
Aberfoyle, Port of Menteith or Gartmore, says Education Scotland.
Secondaries: the only one in the area, McLaren high, has mostly "good"
quality indicators.


Hang out at...

The Lion & Unicorn in Thornhill and the Byre Inn in Brig o'Turk tick
the box for "idyllic". Mhor Fish in Callander is a cut above the usual
chippy.


Where to buy 

The countryside is awash in fine estates and farmhouses, and Victorian
and Edwardian villas and townhouses from the area's heyday.
Callander is the main town, full of pretty stone townhouses and
cottages but with a high demand for property, so nothing hangs about
long. Large detacheds and townhouses, £225,000-£700,000, with a few
humongous estates up to £1.3m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£150,000-£225,000. Semis, £120,000-£200,000. Terraces and
cottages, £95,000-£175,000. Flats, £85,000-£175,000. Rentals:
little for rent; a one-bed flat, perhaps £500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Two-bedroom semi in Callander, in need of upgrading, for £120,000
with McLean & Stewart (01786 823217).


From the streets

Jenny Simpson 
"Loch Venachar sailing club - a beautiful, mountain-lined loch.
Friendly, informal and great fun."

Ian McCourt 
"A great place to bring up kids: good schools, medical care and
shops."


Live in Callander? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Deal, Kent? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 28 August 2018

 