Let's move to Hebden Bridge, West Yorks: a rain-soaked paradise

If the roots of its liberal and creative image are a mystery, its appeal is obvious

Hebden Bridge, West Yorkshire: 'It feels festive even on a wet winter Tuesday.'

Hebden Bridge, West Yorkshire: 'It feels festive even on a wet winter Tuesday.'


What's going for it? 

Nobody knows why Hebden Bridge became "Hebden Bridge", officially the
quirkiest/kookiest/koolest/most LGBTQ-friendly/least chain-store-y etc
small town in the universe. I have asked. I asked the people in the
herb shop on the narrowboat, at the market, on the towpath, at the
Trades Club. I asked Urban Boffins in the university faculty I teach
in. Nobody knows. It looks like other northern, post-industrial former
mill towns: canal, steep valley, Methodist chapels, chimneys... It
feels, though, utterly different, a little rain-soaked paradise. You'd
never have guessed it from Hebden Bridge's starring role in Happy
Valley's grimfest; nor from local boy Ted Hughes' poem Stubbing
Wharfe: "the hopeless old stone trap". Two decades after he wrote that
in the 1950s, though, others saw what he couldn't - artists, hippies
and conservationists doing up its cheap, knackered buildings. Today
the town feels festive even on a wet winter Tuesday: all co-ops,
carrot cake and bunting - blunt Yorkshire wit, though, perfectly
tempering the earnestness.


The case against...

Such is the demand to live here, and such is the shortage of space,
you'll pay a premium to move in. Floods: though how well it bounced
back from the last, in 2016. Cosmopolitan it may be, but it's still a
very small town. Occasionally tends towards over-kookiness.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Manchester Victoria (34-45 mins) via Rochdale (17-24 mins);
every 15 mins to Leeds (48-54 mins) via Halifax (13-17 mins) and
Bradford (26-31 mins). Driving: half an hour to Halifax, the M62 and
the M65 at Burnley, 40 mins to Bradford, 50 to Leeds and over an hour
to central Manchester.


Schools 

Primaries: all the town's primary schools - Heptonstall, Riverside,
Stubbings Infant, Central Street Infant and Hebden Royd Church of
England are "good", according to Ofsted. Secondaries: Calder High in
nextdoor Mytholmroyd is "good".


Hang out at...

You won't want for nice cafes, pubs, micro-brewers and tea rooms,
Coffee Cali and the like. The Trades Club: good enough for Mark E
Smith.


Where to buy 

The whole town is a delight of stone terraces and Victorian villas. A
location higher up the hills, with even better views, is most prized.
Love the peculiar upstairs-downstairs houses - one house on top of
another - set into the steep slopes. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£400,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £400,000.
Semis, £200,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£120,000-£275,000. Flats, £90,000-£170,000. Rentals: not much; a
three-bedroom house, £525-£700pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Not cheap, but what an opportunity. A wonderful four-bedroom, grade
II-listed stone 16th-century home: £465,000 with peterdavid.co.uk.


From the streets

Ian Strachan 
"Magic mountain biking, and great bike shop. Hardcastle Craggs NT
woodland great for a walk to Gibson Mill for tea and cake."

Nader Fekri 
"It's warm, gay-friendly and artistic. I can't imagine living anywhere
else."

Paul Clarke 
"Pet hate: the pointless debate between those born in the town and
'offcumdens' like me who have chosen to live in a town with nationally
recognised music venue the Trades Club, our own cinema, and great
schools. It's the perfect place to bring up kids."


Live in Hebden Bridge? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Tenterden, Kent? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 27 February.

 