Let's move to Ipswich, Suffolk: "More David Brent than Steve Jobs"

You can - just about - find Ipswichness peeping out, in its burgeoning
festival scene or the independent shops and 17th-century gables

Historic buildings in Lower Brook Street, Ipswich, Suffolk

Ipswich: "It's rather clonesville."


What's going for it? 

Imagine the scene. Early 70s. Handlebar moustaches. Santana on the
radio. California comes to Suffolk. OK, it's an insurance firm, not a
Silicon Valley startup. But look at that office: straight outta San
Fran. Almost mirror-glass walls. Cool. Rooftop cafe. Escalators. Acid
colours. What? A built-in swimming pool?! The Willis building, built
by Norman Foster in his late 30s, still looks as if the future hasn't
quite caught up with it. Ipswich's future turned out more banal than
bright.

At least it's fairly prosperous. Small mercies. But the waterfront
slick of office parks and Pizza Expresses is more David Brent than
Steve Jobs. Look hard, though, and you can - just about - find
Ipswichness peeping out, in its burgeoning festival scene, say, or the
independent shops and 17th-century gables amid the Zizzis on St
Nicholas Street. For a thousand years, this was a North Sea port up
there with Hamburg and Antwerp. Who knows, one day it might be again.


The case against 

A missed opportunity. Spots of distinction aside - such as the
Jerwood DanceHouse, the Tudor-era Christchurch Mansion and the
quayside in the sunshine - it's rather clonesville.


Well connected? 

Trains: to Colchester (19 mins), Chelmsford (38 to 51 mins), Bury St
Edmunds (35 mins), Norwich (45 mins) and London (64 to 83 mins).
Driving: 30 mins to Colchester and the coast at Felixstowe, 40 mins to
Bury St Edmunds.


Schools 
rimaries: among many rated "good" by Ofsted, St Mary's Catholic, St
John's CofE, Castle Hill Infant, Springfield and St Mark's Catholic
are "outstanding". Secondaries: Kesgrave High, Copleston High,
Northgate High and Ormiston Endeavour Academy are all "good".


Hang out at 

Ditch the quayside bistros for the real ales in the Fat Cat.


Where to buy 

You will find fragments of an old town - 16th-century terraces and
Georgian townhouses- in the centre, plus "luxury apartments" at the
quay. But the nicest homes hug Christchurch Park to the north,
particularly to its west, with avenues of Victorian villas, 20s semis
and Edwardian townhouses, also heading northwards across Valley Road.
East Ipswich has affluent suburbs, from the modern estates of
executive homes in Rushmere St Andrew out to the A12/A14 bypass. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £220,000-£450,000. Semis, £170,000-£700,000. Terraces
and cottages, £130,000-£300,000. Flats, £80,000-£400,000. Rentals:
a one-bedroom flat, £400-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£675-£1,100pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A nice three-bedroom, semi-detached Victorian on the east side of
town, needs modernisation, £260,000, palmerpartners.com.


From the streets

Bethany Stephenson 
"Affordable houses (considering the proximity to London); an improved
waterfront; Christchurch Park; and the Woolpack, a fantastic, friendly
pub with great food, a lovely landlady and good cask ales."

Will Mott 

"Briarbank, a small bar and brewery 100 metres from the water."

Roger Gilles 
"Still very provincial, considering the proximity to London."



Live in Ipswich? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ramsbottom, Lancashire? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 19
June.

 