Let's move to Finnieston, Glasgow: "You'll struggle to find a lampshade in the modish new nitespots"

Move there and open something useful. With no cocktails in jam jars

Finnieston, Glasgow: "It's gentrified."

Finnieston, Glasgow: "It's gentrified."


What's going for it? 

Bare lightbulbs. Yes, yes, I know they're very fashionable right now,
thank you very much. I have read Living Etc. But, at the risk of
sounding like my late granny, what's wrong with a lampshade? Once upon
a time, bare lightbulbs in a window might have indicated poverty or
dereliction. Now they mean quite the opposite. You'll struggle to find
a lampshade in the windows of the modish new nitespots on Argyle
Street, aka the Strip. Finnieston is yet another tale of
gentrification. Where once dockworkers had their fish supper,
yuppies/dinkys/hipsters/whatevs now eat octopus with blood orange and
drink in gin bars; where there were once actual docks, there are now
"luxury" (you might want to speed-dial trading standards with that
word) apartments. With wearying inevitability, last year saw
Finnieston third in the UK for property price rises, at 14%. So
perhaps it's a case of let's not move to. Or, if you do, maybe open
something useful. With lampshades. And no cocktails in jam jars.


The case against 

The much-documented problems of gentrification. The Clydeside half by
the Expressway can feel bleak, unpopulated and Anywheresville. Few
affordable options if you have a family.


Well connected? 

Very well placed, with Kelvingrove Park right there, the Clyde with
the BBC, STV, Hydro and SEC, and a half-hour walk to Glasgow Central.
Trains: the local station, Exhibition Centre, makes Glasgow Central in
four mins (every 10 mins or so) en route for Motherwell (45 mins) and
Cumbernauld (1 hr) one way, Milngavie (20 mins) or Dalmuir (20 mins)
the other.


Schools 

Primaries: Sgoil Ghàidhlig Ghlaschu (Glasgow Gaelic school) and St
Patrick's are "good" or "very good", and Anderston "good", says
Education Scotland. Secondaries: Sgoil Ghàidhlig Ghlaschu again, or a
walk to Hillhead High and Notre Dame High (girls), both of which lack
current inspection reports.


Hang out at... 

Quite the culinary hub: Porter & Rye, the Finnieston, the Gannet, Ox
and Finch, Alchemilla and Crabshakk are all in the Good Food Guide,
and within a few hundred yards of each other. I could go on.

Restaurant: The Gannet, Finnieston, Glasgow


Where to buy 

A tale of three cities. To the north towards Woodside Place and
Sauchiehall Street it's all posh, leafy, Victorian tenements. To the
south, around Argyle Street, the same only denser, less leafy and
shabbier. Then it's the Clydeside slabs of contemporary apartments.
Flats: three bedrooms, £170,000-£250,000; two bedrooms,
£140,000-£300,000; one bedroom, £100,000-£150,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £500-£800pcm; a three-bedroom flat,
£700-£1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A cool-looking one-bedroom flat in a lovely Victorian listed former
barracks; £136,000, with doorsteps.co.uk.


From the streets

Calum Fraser 
"A fantastic food and drink scene. A young professional crowd and lots
of students, too. Explore the Hidden Lane for nice independent shops
and cool tearooms."

Michaela Ball 
"House prices have jumped in the past few years; the council smartened
it up last year with new pavements."



Live in Finnieston? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Hebden Bridge? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23 January.

 