Let's move to Ouseburn: if Newcastle upon Tyne had a Shoreditch, this would be it

It's the north-east's pumping creative heart

Ouseburn, Newcastle upon Tyne

"The best thing about Ouseburn is its weirdness."


What's going for it? 

Oh, yes, everyone's talking about Ouseburn. What? Never heard of it?
Darling, where have you been? If Newcastle had a Shoreditch, this
would be it. Or rather, if London had an Ouseburn... Those not in the
know might just drive over the Byker Bridge and barely glance at the
mechanics'  sheds, warehouses, Victorian odds and sods, and is that a
farm (it is) underneath them. This, I'll have you know, is the
pumping heart of the north-east's creative economy, resuscitated
from postindustrial dankness by the community-driven Ouseburn Trust,
those odds and sods inhabited by clusters and hubs, co-working
startups and digital-craft-hybrid-artisan-coffee-roasters, that sort
of thing. Good for them. The best thing about Ouseburn, though, is its
weirdness, that deep, dark crevasse of a valley hiding all sorts of
mysteries; the way you might see horses wandering past those
mechanics' sheds en route for the stables, the slightly surreal
"village green", as if collaged from Ambridge. But the really best
thing? Having a pint in the sun at the Free Trade, watching the boats
on the Tyne drift by.


The case against 

It hasn't all come together yet; the fragments need to be stitched to
each other. Developers are all over it: let's hope it doesn't
succumb.


Well connected? 

It's a 20-minute walk to Newcastle city centre; the Tyne is on your
doorstep. Buses ply the main roads. The excellent Metro has Manors and
Byker stations nearby, whizzing you up town or to the seaside.


Schools 

Primaries: among a handful rated "good", Ofsted says, Byker and St
Teresa's Catholic are "outstanding". Secondaries: a fair trek to
Benfield or Walker Technology College, both "good", or the independent
Royal Grammar and High School for Girls.


Hang out at...

Spoilt for choice for dreamy pubs. The Free Trade, where the Ouseburn
meets the Tyne; the Tyne Bar, with its craft beers; the vegan Ship Inn
on the green.


Where to buy 

It's an odd assortment. In the valley itself you'll find live/work
spaces, Victorian warehouses, great new housing such as the Malings
(with more planned), but there's not much of it as yet. At its
fringes, though, are neighbours such as Heaton's streets of
excellent Victorian terraces, the modern Tyneside apartment blocks and
townhouses of Newcastle's noughties revival (often staggeringly
ugly) and the listed pioneering 70s Byker housing estate, now being
renovated. Townhouses, £200,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£60,000-£200,000. Flats, £50,000-£400,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £400-£650pcm; a three-bedroom house, £650-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom terrace house in the listed Byker estate, £55,000, with
springbokproperties.co.uk.


From the streets

Helene Brandon 
"What to say about this fabulous 'urban village'? Teeming with
creatives, it has iconic bar/venue the Cluny, an urban farm, Seven
Stories children's book venue, 36 Lime Street with artists'
studios that open up twice a year with a selling exhibition. Eat and
drink at cool bar Ernest, browse fine art (and eat) at the Biscuit
Factory."

Catherine Cameron 
"A hidden gem, full of creative workshops, galleries, pubs and cafes.
A current favourite is Kiln - an industrial vibe cafe/bar with a
working pottery attached. Mainly vegetarian menu, really friendly
staff, child- and dog-friendly, music nights, themed supper clubs,
occasional kids pottery drop-ins, and you can even buy the plates
you've eaten off for a discount!"


Do you live in Surrey Quays, south-east London? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 12 June.

 