Let's move to Ramsbottom, Greater Manchester: the town is a delight

For a place with only 18,000 residents, it has a thriving music scene
and a remarkable selection of pubs, bars and restaurants

Ramsbottom: "Proud of its streets of independent shops."


What's going for it? 

They're a greedy lot in Ramsbottom. A place after my own heart. Do
they think about nothing else but what they pour down their throats?
Not content with having one stellar tapas bar in a town of 18,000,
they have two. There are chocolate festivals and
black-pudding-throwing championships and game-bird shows. There are
plenty of other things to pass the time. Ramsbottom is famous for its
music scene. Cricket and footie. Shopping: the place is proud of its
streets of independent shops. There's a lovely old stream train
station, too. Did I mention the pies? Ah, we're back on food. And
booze? Well, there must be a reason they have Urnie, the gigantic
statue of a tipped-over vessel after a spectacularly good Saturday
night, in pride of place in Market Square. Let's just say there are a
lot of opportunities for quality imbibing, from alehouses to a vegan
cocktail bar (who knew?), if that's your tipple. If I were AN Other
writer in a lesser newspaper, I might drag out the dreaded F-word - 
"foodie - " and say something like: "Ramsbottom is fast becoming a
foodie destination." But I'm not, and this isn't, so I won't.


The case against 

Very little. The town is a delight. It's not exactly the steppes, but
when the winter weather is fierce, you feel it. Rain, rain, go away...


Well connected? 

Trains: well, unless you like a gust of steam with your morning
commute (the East Lancashire railway passes through), no. Driving:
you're right on the M66 and the A56, so you can make Bury in 15 mins;
Bolton, Burnley, Blackburn and Rochdale in 25 mins; the M62 in 25
mins; and central Manchester in 40 mins.


Schools 

Primaries: among several rated "good", says Ofsted, Stubbins,
Hazlehurst Community and Holly Mount RC are "outstanding".
Secondaries: the town's Woodhey High "requires improvement". Nearby
Tottington High and Haslingden High are "good".


Hang out at 

Oh, the pubs. You won't find finer. The Hearth Of The Ram and the
Eagle + Child are perhaps the pick, but the Ramsbottom Tap and Irwell
Works brewery are blissful, too. Then there's those tapas bars,
Levanter and Baratxuri.


Where to buy 

The town has a wonderful selection of fine Victorian stone townhouses
and semis and lots of terraces, mostly lining the old roads out of
town, Bolton Street and Bolton Road, and the streets in between, such
as Bury New Road and Carr Bank. You will find delightful old weavers'
cottages, too, and the odd 18th-century job. Great farmhouses out of
town. Large detacheds and townhouses, £425,000-£900,000. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £275,000-£425,000. Semis,
£160,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages, £100,000-£375,000.
Flats, £80,000-£185,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£475-£575pcm; a three-bedroom house, £575-£800pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom semi, £124,950, with weale-hitchen.co.uk.


From the streets

Ann-Marie Coyne 
"Lots of good places to eat and drink: the Hungry Duck on Bridge
Street, Mrs P's for pizza and ice-cream, the Vineyard wine shop."


Live in Ramsbottom? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Southwold, Suffolk? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 24 July.


Comments

Lancashire please.

It used to be until 1974. It's Greater Manchester and none the worse
for it. Up the road in Rossendale is Lancashire and it feels quite
different than Rammy which does indeed belong in Greater Manchester.

Exactly - the way it works Ramsbottom is part of Manchester.

Manchester and delight just do not sit together, perhaps Manchester
and gun crime would be more apt.

Yeah it's honestly like Die Hard 2 in Rammy, bring your bulletproof
vests!

Have you ever been to Croydon or Edmonton? Manchester looks like the
Cotswolds in comparison.

 