Let's move to Colchester, Essex: it's historic, but keeps up with the
times

This is a city worthy of an epic, like Troy

Colchester, Essex: "It's seen Romans and more ancient tribes before them."

Colchester, Essex: "It's seen Romans and more ancient tribes before them."


What's going for it? 

Been around a while, Colchester. Seen it all before. This is, after
all, reputedly the oldest continually inhabited town in the land.
It's seen Romans (they went wild for its oysters), and more ancient
tribes before them. Cymbeline. Yes, the Cymbeline. Old King Cole. Yes,
the Old King Cole. Pliny writes about Colchester. Pliny never wrote
about Nuneaton. So respect to Colchester; it'll outlive you or me.
It keeps up with the times, don't get me wrong, with its (literally)
dazzling Firstsite art gallery, the Colchester Arts Centre and its new
Curzon cinema. But this is a place with old bones. Look past the
Nando's, to the old stones of the castle, the curly wurly curlicued
town hall, the heroic politics of its postwar university, the ghosts
of Flemish weavers in the Dutch Quarter. Colchester is a city worthy
of an epic, like Troy. It's got tales to tell. Maybe when Boudicca
burnt it to the ground. Or when the Normans built the largest castle
in Europe. Or maybe when the parliamentarians laid siege to it in the
civil war and the citizens were forced to eat rats. There are plenty
of juicy plots here. So, who's going to write it?


The case against 

Too many executive estates of toy town tat built in the noughties. The
Golden Banana: love it or hate it?

Well connected? 

Trains: the main Colchester station has four or five an hour to
Chelmsford and Ipswich (both 18-26 mins), and London (49-66 mins);
Colchester Town goes to Walton-On-The-Naze (hourly, 42 mins). Driving:
30 mins to the coast at Clacton and Harwich port, 20 mins to Dedham
Vale and Constable Country, Ipswich 30 mins, Stansted Airport less
than an hour, the M25 45 mins.


Schools 

Primaries: most are "good", says Ofsted, with Hamilton, St Teresa's
Catholic, Home Farm and Montgomery Infants "outstanding". Secondaries:
The Stanway , St Benedict's Catholic, The Thomas Lord Audley, St
Helena, Colchester Academy, The Gilberd are "good"; Colchester Royal
Grammar needs a more up-to-date report; Colchester County High
"outstanding" in 2009.


Hang out at... 

Church Street Tavern for Mersea oysters; Grain for wood pigeon and
hazelnuts. Oh yes.


Where to buy 

In town, the historic heart has all the character you'd expect,
especially in the famous Dutch Quarter of Tudor, 17th- and
18th-century townhouses and cottages. Beyond, west is best, between
Lexden Road and Maldon Road. And out to Lexden itself, especially
Poets Corner. Large detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£1.25m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £200,000-£450,000. Semis,
£150,000-£500,000. Terraces and cottages, £125,000-£350,000.
Flats, £100,000-£400,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £525-£825pcm; a
three-bed house, £800-£1,400pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Interwar and postwar homes, like this four-bed detached in St
John's; £385,000, with michaelsproperty.co.uk.


From the streets

Chris Coates 
"It's commutable, when the trains are running, and Essex University is
just outside town."

Alan Bullard 
"Lovely old Roman town with pretty narrow streets, Roman wall, and
Castle Park stretching from the town centre to the river."


Live in Colchster? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Bangor, County Down? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13
November.
