Let's move to Louth, Lincolnshire: 'Worth the slog'

It's worth a detour to visit this historic market town where the ills
of modern life have been kept at bay

Louth, Lincolnshire

Louth, Lincolnshire: beautiful, but with few airs and graces.


What's going for it? 

Unless en route for Mablethorpe (and, let's face it, most of us
aren't), one rarely passes by Louth. You have to make the effort. Pack
sandwiches and a flask. Crawl behind tractors, caravans and lorries
laden with potatoes, past squelchy fields and countless villages
ending in -by. Twist and turn and rise and fall through the
Lincolnshire wolds. And then, just when you have abandoned hope of
ever seeing another living soul, there it is: the fabulous spire of St
James' church rising over the dashboard. After all that, you'd fall
upon Crawley as if it were Venice. But Louth is worth the slog. It's
one of those just-wonderful places. Trust me. Relative isolation and
feisty locals mean many of the ills of modern life have been kept at
bay. Eve & Ranshaw department store still sells antimacassars. The
Playhouse cinema still has intermissions. Only Aldi has breached their
defences. That's not to say the place is a museum: Louth is beautiful,
but it's a working market town with few airs and graces. And a damn
fine cheese shop. Told you it was worth it.


The case against 

All on its lonesome ownsome. The one-way system drives me to insanity
each time I come.


Well connected? 

Trains: you'll be lucky. Driving: half an hour to the coast at
Mablethorpe, 45 mins to Lincoln, an hour to the A1.


Schools 

Primaries: St Michael's CofE and Lacey Gardens are both "good", says
Ofsted, with Kidgate "outstanding". Secondaries: King Edward VI
Grammar is "outstanding"; the new Louth Academy has just opened.


Hang out at...

A Tipsy Toad by the fire at the Wheatsheaf is what you want. The newly
reopened Masons Arms, with its cocktail bar, might shake things up.


Where to buy 

A simply delightful town centre, mostly a conservation area listed up
to the hilt with brick Georgian townhouses and cottages its
speciality. Some pleasant roads heading out of town, like Horncastle
Road. The usual suburbans. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£300,000-£800,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£130,000-£300,000. Semis, £130,000-£250,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£250,000. Flats, £70,000-£150,000. Rentals: a
one-bed flat, £400pcm; a three-bed house, £550-£650pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Well, it is £450,000. But then it is a five-bedroom Georgian detached
with 250 square metres to play with (masons-surveyors.co.uk).


From the streets

John Cullinane 
"Great cheese shop, and lots of good pork products (haslet, chine) if
that is your thing. Narrow pavements are tricky with a double buggy.
Very isolated."

Amanda Turner 
"A real foodie's paradise: Lincolnshire poacher cheese, Lincoln red
beef, and plum bread - perfect with a cuppa."



Live in Louth? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Chipping Campden? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, please email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16
January.

 