Let's move to Wimborne Minster, Dorset: "Where white-haired ladies
rock the Queen's hairdo"

It hasn't changed that much since 1951

Wimborne Minster, Dorset

Wimborne Minster, Dorset: "It takes the comings and goings of fashion
in its stride."


What's going for it? 

There are two Wimborne Minsters, one fitting neatly inside the other
like a matryoshka doll. Wimborne Model Town, recreating the "real"
one outside, was built in the 1950s and its Eastmans family butcher, H
Langer & Sons leather goods and Thomas The Tank Engine trainline are
consequently straight out of Call The Midwife. You shrink to normal
size, though, in the "real" doppelganger, not that you'd notice.
Give or take the Vibe Lounge, wheelie bins and Costa Coffee, the town
outside hasn't changed that much since 1951. Old streets of
porticoes and bay windows; white-haired ladies rocking the Queen's
hairdo; panama hats not beanies in the windows at Bartletts Menswear
Specialists. It's an ancient place, been around since the Saxons, so
Wimborne takes the comings and goings of fashion in its stride. Which
is probably why it's so popular with retirees. And me. Sucker for a
panama hat, me.


The case against 

Perhaps a little dull. It's all about the quiet life and nice
sourdough from Number 9 On The Green. Ravers, though, can large it in
Bournemouth down the road.


Well connected? 

Trains: no. Driving: you're hard on the A31 for escape, if traffic
lets you; half an hour to the beach and mainline rail at Bournemouth,
20 mins to the harbour at Poole, just under an hour to Southampton.
Bournemouth Airport's not far, too.


Schools 

Primaries: "good" schools, says Ofsted, with Allenbourn Middle, St
John's CofE First, Merley First, Beaucroft Foundation, Colehill
First, Hayeswood First and St Catherine's Catholic all
"outstanding". Secondaries: Queen Elizabeth's is "good",
with Beaucroft Foundation "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Tickled Pig - locally sourced food and friendly staff. The
Butcher's Dog for craft beer and butcher's snacks.


Where to buy 

The centre is all cottages and townhouses, and utterly delightful.
West Street's gorgeous, but it's West Borough, heading north out
of town, that has the pick of places to choose from. Here, look at
Rowlands Hill, St John's Hill and around for weighty suburbans.
There are flashier homes around Queen Anne Drive and Canford Magna, a
village between Wimborne Minster and Poole. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £600,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£300,000-£600,000. Semis, £275,000-£500,000. Terraces and
cottages, £250,000-£425,000. Flats, £150,000-£400,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £650-£750pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£1,000-£2,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom prewar semi, £300,000, needing serious modernisation;
with hearnes.com.


From the streets

Richard Ward 
"Eight Arch Brewing Company's Friday Tap with great street food from
the boys at Flaming Peaches. Long walks along the Jurassic Coast at
Kimmeridge."


Geoff Hardwicke 
"A great place to live if you're middle-class and middle-aged;
surrounded on three sides by quiet Dorset countryside."


Live in Wimborne Minster? Join the debate below

Do you live in Chester? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 6 November.
