Let's move to Grange-over-Sands and Cartmel: "Ooh, Alan Bennett"

An exotic destination for middle-aged elopers

Grange-Over-Sands, Cumbria photographed from the sea

Grange-over-Sands, Cumbria: "A most pleasant place."

What's going for it? 

Grange-over-Sands is the kind of spot namechecked in Victoria Wood
sketches, Alan Bennett scripts or classic Coronation Street as the
epitome of posh, the exotic destination for middle-aged elopers, with
its hedonistic cocktail of hushed hotels, vigorous (but not overly so)
rambling and restaurants with starched napkins and potted shrimps on
the menu. It's still a most pleasant place, if a little forgotten
about. Whether you find it charmingly nostalgic or deadly dull depends
on your penchant for secondhand bookshops, purveyors of hearing aids,
chocolate boutiques and benches for gawping out across the squelchy
plains of Morecambe Bay. It's my kind of place, though one fears for
its future. Today's midlife elopers are more likely to opt for
Cartmel, next door: nostalgic in its own, hipper way, with its cute,
Instagrammable priory, boutique hotels, delicious food shops and
A-list restaurants. Plus the prospect of a slice of the village's
infamous sticky toffee pudding. Better than (middle-aged) sex. So I'm
told.


The case against 

Tucked rather out of the way of the 21st century. That, of course,
being the point. Quiet. Gentle pleasures.


Well connected? 

Trains: on the beautiful, if trundling, Cumbrian Coast line; hourly or
half-hourly trains to the mainline at Carnforth (18 mins) or Lancaster
(25-30 mins), or to Preston (46 mins); Ulverston (12-16 mins), Barrow
(38 mins) and then slooooowy up the Cumbrian coastline. Driving: 20
mins to the M6, 25 mins to Kendal or up the fells at Windermere for
heftier walking.


Schools 

Primaries: Grange C of E and Allithwaite C of E are "good", Ofsted
says, with Cartmel C of E "outstanding". Secondaries: the only local,
Cartmel Priory C of E, is "good". Phew.

Hang out at...

The Hazelmere cafe and bakery in Grange for a slice of Cumberland rum
nicky. But frankly, there's only one megastar round here: Simon Rogan
in Cartmel, with L'Enclume and Rogan & Co. Reason enough to move here.


Where to buy 

Grange has beautifully detailed stone Victorian-to-1930s villas
straight out of Agatha Christie, racked up on avenues up the hill,
staring out to sea. Hunt around Rockland Road; also down towards Kents
Bank. Cartmel is a delightful spot, too; smarter and well-groomed
cottages and smaller townhouses in the village huddled around the main
square. Large detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£750,000. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £250,000-£400,000. Semis,
£200,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages, £160,000-£350,000.
Flats, £100,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£450-£550pcm; a three-bedroom house, £800-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

It's £550,000, I know. But eight bedrooms? And a former "gentleman's
residence"? And those views? With pooletownsend.co.uk.

From the streets

David Rees 
"On a good day, from the top of Hampsfell you get views of Snowdonia,
Blackpool Tower and the Lake District. Lots of retirees; a good local
food scene - the lamb here is famous, as they graze on the salt
marsh at Morecambe Bay. Grange is a micro-climate - we have palm
trees growing on the promenade and it is a lot milder and sunnier than
the Lake District."

Julie Hudson 
"Nice, friendly community. Not a lot of restaurants in Grange, there
are more cafes - go to Cartmel for more restaurants."


Live in Grange or Cartmel? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Wimborne? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2 October.


Comments

It's grim oop North to be fair.

The weather is grim, that's the problem.

Morecambe, right across the bay, has more hours of sunshine per annum
than anywhere in the UK. The views across the bay from either side are
just stunning. Morecambe is much cheaper than Grange or Cartmel, and
has better transport links, albeit without the "genteel charm".

I was looking for an entry about this place on Country Life magazine
but they seem to have left it out because it is more than a 105 min
commute to London. Oh well more the better perhaps!

