Let's move to Stockport, Greater Manchester: 'It's a game of two halves'

With staggering deprivation, and swathes of wealth in Victorian
suburbs, it's arriving fashionably late to the regeneration party

Stockport: 'Its rather pretty old town has been restored. Watch this
space.'



What's going for it? 

Stockport? Yes. Stockport. Been through it countless times, gazing
down from the viaduct in my Pendolino, at its odd, dramatic landscape,
the deep Mersey valley, the Stockport Pyramid, Merseyway shopping
centre, mill chimneys, all chucked together like a petulant child.
Interesting. Must explore. And then, one day, I did. It's a game of
two halves. On the one hand, its deprivation can be staggering. On the
other, swathes of wealth in Victorian suburbs such as Bramhall or
Heaton Moor. Stockport's misfortune was to bet its economy on hats and
silk. Judging from the number of columns on the town hall and the size
of those Victorian houses, some people made a lot of money. These
days, the town is arriving fashionably late to the regeneration party.
But it has plans: office parks, retail parks, creative quarters and
futureproofing. Hubs, I'm sure, will feature. Its Victorian market is
to become the next Altrincham Market. Its rather pretty old town has
been restored. Watch this space.


The case against 

Do not underestimate the scale of revival necessary. I hope it doesn't
ape Manchester's bling economy too closely. Much of the centre is a
swirl of infrastructure: learn to love flyovers.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: to Manchester (9-17 mins), Warrington (36 mins),
Liverpool (70 mins) and London Euston (2 hours). Driving: the M60
charges through the centre; Manchester Airport is five miles away.


Schools 

Good. Primaries: among many rated "good" by Ofsted, Mersey Vale,
Vernon Park, Banks Lane Infant, Great Moor Infant, St Peter's
Catholic, Ladybrook, Pownall Green and Queensgate are "outstanding".
Secondaries: Stockport Academy and Stockport School are "good", with
Priestnall "outstanding". Independents include Hulme Hall Grammar and
Stockport Grammar.


Hang out at... 

Where The Light Gets In - Marina O'Loughlin said in this newspaper
that it "serves the most exciting food I've had in years".
Reservations are two months ahead.


Where to buy 

Some exceptionally fine and fairly well-priced late-Victorian and
Edwardian homes. The avenues of Bramhall are lined with huge piles;
closer in, Davenport has wonderful Victorian villas. West to Heaton
Mersey and Heaton Moor, on and off Didsbury Road and Heaton Moor Road
is denser. Hazel Grove for more modern suburbans. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £350,000-£1.6m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£200,000-£350,000. Semis, £120,000-£750,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£400,000. Flats, £75,000-£350,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £385-£675pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£650-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Four-bedroom detached Victorian house with no chain, in Woodley,
£318,500 with thomaslardner.com.


From the streets
Karen Bamforth 
"Lots of bars, shops and restaurants. Try Heaton Hops and independent
cinema, The Savoy."

Laura Cooper 
"Tandem Coffee House and The Allotment, a vegan restaurant."


Live in Stockport? Join the debate below.

Do you live in St Andrews? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23 April.


Comments

I lived in Heaton Moor for 15 years. It's nice and leafy, with some
trendy eateries, but Stockport as a whole is... well, a hole. If the
regeneration can update some of the backward attitudes, that would be
amazing but I suspect it will remain overwhelmingly 'White British'
and secretly proud of it. A place for local people.... 

Yet it voted to stay in the EU. Heaton Moor is more Manchester really
as it is North of the Mersey.

The Mersey runs through Stockport (begins there really)

You'll just love the 42 bus service and being surrounded by Man City
fans.

I'd say the 192 is the archetypal Stockport City fan bus personally.

Whereas the United fans are to be found on the 8.12 from Surbiton to
Victoria.
