Let's move to Warrington, Cheshire: 'It's where the canny live'

Warrington is a spaghetti junction of infrastructure. You can get
everywhere from it


Bridgewater canal, Warrington

'Warrington's got connections.'


What's going for it? 

Warrington's got connections. It may not have the cachet or the name
of some of its neighbours - Chester, say, Altrincham, or the
so-called "golden triangle" between Knutsford, Wilmslow and Alderley
Edge. Its grand civic buildings and occasional redbrick Georgian
townhouses hint at a past more illustrious than the present, which is
mostly a tough, unglamorous affair of Primarks and retail parks,
megapubs and dual carriageways (though there's glamour aplenty on the
streets on an average Friday night). No, Warrington's USP, ever since
the Romans crossed the river Mersey here, is its geography. You can
get everywhere from it. OK, Builth Wells may be a struggle, but,
girdled with three motorways, crisscrossed by two major rail lines and
with the Mersey, Manchester Ship Canal and Bridgewater Canal for those
taking it slower, Warrington is a spaghetti junction of
infrastructure. Which is why logistics companies, such as Amazon,
plonk their sheds here, and why the canny live here, with its great
schools and excellent property, at a fraction of the price of their
neighbours in posher climes.


The case against 

Canal walks aside, it's not a looker. You can winkle out the odd
independent store or cultural hotspot, like Walton Hall, but they're
not the main attraction.


Well connected? 

Very. Two stations: to Chester (about 28 mins), Stockport (34 mins),
various Manchester stations (22-41 mins), Liverpool (29-46 mins),
Huddersfield (1hr), Sheffield (1hr 16 mins), and Leeds (1hr 24 mins).
Driving: central Manchester, Chester and Liverpool are a 40-min drive,
Altrincham or St Helens 30 mins.


Schools 

Primaries: all the town's primaries are "good", says Ofsted, with
Callands, Evelyn Street, St Stephen's Catholic and St Oswald's
Catholic "outstanding". Secondaries: Great Sankey High, Beamont
Collegiate, Cardinal Newman Catholic High and King's Leadership are
"good", with Bridgewater High "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Out-of-town honeypots like the Church Green in Lymm, or Little Manor,
Thelwall.


Where to buy 

South, around Stockton Heath off London Road and to Grappenhall for
grand Victorians and Edwardians. The town's hinterland has some nice
villages, such as Appleton, Winwick or Lymm, for fast escapes on the
motorways. Large detacheds and townhouses, £350,000-£1.5m. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £130,000-£350,000. Semis,
£80,000-£600,000. Terraces and cottages, £70,000-£300,000. Flats,
£50,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £350-£650pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £500-£1,350pcm.


Bargain of the week 

A three-bedroom modern detached, needing modernisation, for £110,000.
Real bargain. With edwardsgrounds.co.uk.


From the streets

Rebecca Knowles 
"The town centre's on the up, with an evolving cultural quarter. In
moments you can be in the cafe society of Stockton Heath or Lymm, or
the cute villages of Appleton Thorn, Thelwall, or Grappenhall. It's no
accident that quite a few BBC staff settled here when their work was
relocated to Media City."

Mandy Edwards 
"Mike & Martha's for fish and chips. Warrington isn't beautiful, but
it does have amazing connections: two airports, two stations, three
motorways."



Do you live in Dorking, Surrey? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 3 April.



Comments

Awful place to live, it's just a massive distribution hub for the north, crammed with cars and lorries everywhere.

One of those northern towns where anyone with an iota of imagination have scarpered to the bigger cities leaving huge estates of dull nothingness.

That photo is hardly representative, is it? I tried to find where it was but at best it must be right on the outskirts.

The photo is of the Bridgewater Canal in Lymm village centre. The Golden Fleece pub is on the right, just out of shot.

You can tell what person is like when they come from Warrington but when asked about it say "oh no, you mistake me, I'm in Stockton Heath/Appleton don't you know!"

Lots of people inStockton Heath who want it to be a the "new" Alderney Edge (why?!)

Costellos in SH has good beers from Dunham Massey rewery - not keen on the interior though.

"Little box of treats" is great for Chinese food. Sadly only open evenings on Friday and Saturday.

I think you mean ALDERLEY Edge, not Alderney, which doesn't have an edge and is in Guernsey. Pay attention!

Ahh... Stockton Heath. It's like a badly xeroxed version of an Essex market town but without the sophistication.
