Let's move to Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk: a charming culinary hotspot

Knapped flint. Weatherboards. Georgian townhouse blazing in the
sunshine. I love Bury. Can you tell?

Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk

Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk: "It's surrounded by underrated and beautiful
countryside."


What's going for it? 

The streets of Bury are a catwalk for the architecturally curious (ie
me). Suffolk-pink painted 16th-century cottages? Yes, please. Don't
like pink? Walk 10 metres and another stunner arrives. Knapped flint.
Half timbers. Weatherboards. Georgian townhouse, orange brick walls
blazing in the sunshine. Ooh, is that a spot of pargetting? It IS.
Yum. Hey, nice tiles. A BOW WINDOW! Lemon-yellow paint? I like it. If
Dan Cruickshank had been left in charge of town planning, he
couldn't have come up with better. They should set every BBC period
drama here. I haven't even mentioned the ancient abbey ruins (with
hobbity houses built into them!), or the cathedral's tower, or the
hammerbeam roofs and don't even get me going on the country's only
surviving Regency playhouse. This makes Bury sound like a museum. It
isn't. The Apex, the Abbeygate cinema, the burgeoning food scene:
this town has life. I love Bury. Can you tell?


The case against 

It's relatively all alone on the A14 (but surrounded by underrated and
beautiful countryside).


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to Cambridge (44-47 mins), hourly or half hourly to
Stowmarket (16-21 mins) and Ipswich (30-38 mins). Driving: the A14,
East Anglia's lifeline, passes through; 45 mins to Cambridge and the
M11, or the other way to Ipswich, 50-60 mins to the coast at
Felixstowe or Aldeburgh.


Schools 

Primaries: Tollgate, Sexton's Manor, St Edmundsbury CofE, Abbots
Green, Guildhall Feoffment, Westgate and Hardwick are all "good", says
Ofsted, with Sebert Wood "outstanding". Secondaries: King Edward VI
CofE and St Benedict's Catholic are "good", with Bury St Edmund’s
County Upper "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Bury is rather a below-the-radar culinary hotspot. Pea Porridge is
usually mentioned, quite rightly, but don't miss Maison Bleue,
Ben's, 1921 Angel Hill and The Angel. Then there's the pubs: The
Old Cannon microbrewery, The Dove, The Fox, the lovely weeny Nutshell,
the Rose and Crown.


Where to buy 

The historic heart is large. Bury has long been an important town, and
every age has left its mark. There's every type of home possible on
streets such as College Street or Whiting Street: wander and wonder.
Just beyond, there's a great neighbourhood of mostly Victorian
streets south of Newmarket Road on the west side of town. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£1.2m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £280,000-£450,000. Semis, £200,000-£600,000. Terraces
and cottages, £170,000-£400,000. Flats, £130,000-£300,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £600-£1,000pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£800-£1,800pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Lovely four-bedroom listed early-19th-century townhouse, in need of
updating, £450,000 with lsk.co.uk.


From the streets

Rachael Salt 
"Great selection of independent shops and cafes. Brilliant market on
Wednesdays and Saturdays with a "foodie row" of world cuisine.
It's inevitable that you'll strike up a conversation with the
other people at the communal open air tables as the town is so
friendly. Downside - no direct trains to London and the dreaded
A14...."

Janet Perks 
"Bury has a country market town feel: conservative, slow paced and
rural. We bought a great house with what we sold our Cambridge semi
for!"



Live in Bury St Edmunds? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Lewes? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 7 August.


Comments

When a writer called Oscar, visiting the town to deliver a lecture,
was asked whether he liked it, he replied, "I come to Bury St Edmunds,
not to praise it".

Funny, I was going to post that but I thought it was Noel Coward.

When a wild coward, visiting the town to deliver an Oscar, was asked
whether he liked it, he replied "I praise Noel Edmonds."

According to my cousin who lives there, the traffic in town is
horrendous and the local bus service almost non existant. If you work
you need a car to get around - no integrated public transport system.
My mum thought about moving back as she had been born and grew up
there but the services for older people are also non existant.

Most places are like that these days - including the whole is
Northamptonshire.

The traffic in town is horrendous

Where, exactly isn't it horrendous?

 