Let's move to Abergavenny: home of food, glorious food

Some will say it's turning into a foodie destination, but there's
enough unpretension to burst any inflated egos

Shops and Borough Theatre on Cross Street in the town centre, Abergavenny, Monmouthshire, Wales

Abergavenny, Monmouthshire: "A neat and tidy town."


What's going for it? 

Just back from the Abergavenny Food Festival, where I fell in love
with a tomato. As you do. It's that kind of place. Food festivals are
10 a penny these days, but this one benefits from a distinct scarcity
of anyone who once appeared on MasterChef. It's more like an overgrown
village fete, full of people plying their prize marrows or my tomato
woman, people who love things and just want to spread the love. I tell
you, it was the tomato-ey-est tomato I've ever tasted north of
Marseille. Abergavenny is a neat and tidy town, seemingly doing quite
all right for itself, shopping streets quietly bustling with wool
shops and opticians, its cottages and houses freshly whitewashed or
grey with stone against a backdrop of green from the three hills that
loom over the streets. Some will say Abergavenny is turning into a
f***ie destination (I refuse to use the F-word) on account of the
festival, and the local cultures of cheesemakers and mountain-lamb
suppliers, bakers and yoghurt. Not quite. They are not yet selling
yuzu at the Spar (you have to go to Waitrose), and the town has more
than enough unpretension to burst any inflated egos.

The case against 

Precious little. I'm thinking hard and scratching my head. Nope.
Nothing.

Well connected? 

Trains: hourly or more often to Newport (25 mins) and Cardiff (40
mins) for the mainline, and half-hourly to Hereford (24 mins) the
other way. Driving: 30 minutes to Monmouth, 40 to Hereford, Hay-on-Wye
or Newport, 50 to Cardiff.

Schools 

Primaries: Gymraeg Y Fenni, Cantref and Llanfoist Fawr are all "good",
says Estyn. Secondaries: the town's King Henry VIII is "adequate".


Hang out at...

You won't want for sustenance. The Hardwick and 1861 are local stars.
But the veteran Walnut Tree, just outside, and now run by Shaun Hill,
is the cherry on the cake.



Where to buy 

The town has a nice compact centre of townhouses and cottages (many of
them built of stone), but the real draw here is its beautiful
collection of late-Victorian and Edwardian homes. Hunt on and around
Hereford Road, and the avenues around Western Road, north of Brecon
Road. Large detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£750,000. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £225,000‑£450,000. Semis,
£225,000-£500,000. Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£425,000.
Flats, £110,000-£175,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£420-£575pcm; a three-bedroom house, £650-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Large, five-bedroom Victorian terraced house, with scope for
improvement and within walking distance of the town centre, £335,000
with christieresidential.co.uk.


From the streets

Dr Michael Edwards 
"Well situated for walking, with the surrounding hills and the Brecon
Beacons."

John Kennedy 
"The road system is outdated, but that gives the town its charm.
Harry's Bar for one of the country's best breakfasts."


Live in Abergavenny? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Portobello, Edinburgh? Do you have a favourite haunt or
a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16
October.
