Let's move to Worcester: "It's full of sauce"

Among its other claims to fame are the loveliest cricket ground in the
land, the cathedral and the oldest newspaper in the world

Worcester cathedral on banks of River Severn

Worcester, Worcestershire: "It has many claims to fame."


What's going for it? 

Worcester has many claims to fame. The sauce, of course. It's full
of sauce. The factory where they make it is still here, unshipped out
yet to China or Ulaanbaatar. The porcelain factory has gone, alas, and
the glovemakers: Dents no longer stitches its hides here. It's also
lost its famous oak tree, in which Charles II hid from parliamentary
forces after the last battle in the civil war, though there's a nice
old pub up town named after the event. The River Severn, languidly
sliding south. Cricket! You can't escape cricket in this city. The
loveliest ground in the land is here, photobombed by the cathedral.
Yes, the cathedral and its fabulous tower, where 'Orrible King John
is buried. The sixth-oldest school in the world. ("Reputedly",
bet-hedges Royal Grammar School's website.) The oldest newspaper in
the world - Berrow's Worcester Journal - in continuous
circulation (for 328 years). Makes the Guardian (197 years) look young
in comparison.

The case against 

Routine flooding, often cutting the city in two, though I'm told new
defences have made life better.


Well connected? 

There are two stations: Foregate Street for Birmingham and Hereford;
and Shrub Hill for Birmingham, Cheltenham, Oxford and London; to
Birmingham (45 minutes to an hour), Hereford (45 minutes), Cheltenham
(25 minutes). Driving: hard on the M5; to Birmingham under an hour,
Stratford 45 minutes, Malvern and the hills 25 minutes.


Schools 

Primaries: almost all the city's schools are "good", says Ofsted, with
St Clement's CofE and Pitmaston "outstanding". Secondaries: The
independent King's School and Royal Grammar dominate, but Aspire,
Tudor Grange, Regency, Nunnery Wood and Blessed Edward Oldcorne
Catholic are all "good".

Hang out at... 

Saffrons Bistro all the way. But there are plenty of nice pubs in
town, too, such as The Marwood and The Swan With Two Nicks (great
name, by the way).


Where to buy 

You name it, Worcester's got it. Ultra-modern bling to tottering
half-timbered. Mostly excellent. The large centre is full of period
homes, with great inner suburbs south-east around London Road and
Battenhall, and north out of the city to Barbourne and Northwick.
Great Regency around Britannia Square or Rainbow Hill. Poshest along
the Severn's banks, especially Henwick and Hallow Roads. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £375,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £225,000-£375,000. Semis, £125,000-£575,000. Terraces
and cottages, £115,000-£350,000. Flats, £85,000-£325,000. Rentals:
a one-bedroom flat,£300-£700pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£425-£1,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Three-bedroom interwar semi, needing modernisation; £125,000, with
your-move.co.uk.


From the streets

Jim Blanden 

"Fabulous Italian food at Sugo above the equally marvellous Lamb & Flag."

Andy Mainwaring 
"Hundreds of new homes have been built in and around Worcester, but
there is no new infrastructure."



Live in Worcester? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Gospel Oak, north London? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 30
October.



Comments

The oak tree was in Boscobel, Shropshire...

I suspect that like Bony Prince Charlie every tree and cave within a
hundred miles will stake a claim.

Was he notoriously thin?..

Hundreds of new homes have been built in and around Worcester, but
there is no new infrastructure.

Sounds familiar. Same here in Bristol.

On the one hand I keep reading that there is a housing shortage and on
the other that new builds are sprouting everywhere. It's hard to know
the truth about anything these days.

If the newbuilds are all aimed at people with mortgages then there
will always be housing shortages. Its not rocket science...
