Let's move to St Andrews: 1,000 years old - and it's still an old romantic

There's gothic romance and it's attractively odd, but maybe it's not
for you if you don't like students or golf


St Andrews

St Andrews: "It's attractively odd."


What's going for it? 

As a romantic backdrop for a future king to meet their future queen,
it couldn't be improved. Rugged cliffs? Check. Wild, windy weather?
Check. Glorious white sandy beaches for smoochy, regal walks? Check.
Ruined gothic cathedral (dull-but-fascinating fact to entertain your
intended: once the biggest cathedral in Scotland)? Check. A fair old
trek for paparazzi and everyone else? Check. Captivating alleyways
wreathed in spooky tales of ghosts, old saints' bones and fishwives
waiting for their husbands to come back, or not, from the sea. Check,
check, check. It's easy to fall for St Andrews. All those streets of
Georgian stone townhouses, bistros and knitwear shops (OK, maybe not
the knitwear shops). All that romance.

It's beautiful. It's charming. It has connections. It's rich. It has
staying power (it's been around a millennium and more). It's also
attractively odd. There are few other places that combine an ancient
university with golf nuts, a fishing port and a bizarrely huge
resident student population from North America. Nope, no idea why.


The case against 

Bit nipped, tucked and preserved for me. If you don't like students or
golf or both, probably not for you: the cultures of each rather
dominate the place. A reputation for snootiness. "When it blows here,
even the seagulls walk" (Nick Faldo); it's blustery!


Well connected? 

Trains: no, the nearest is Leuchars, a (regular) 15-minute bus ride
away; two or three an hour to Dundee (12-16 mins), hourly to Aberdeen
(90 mins), one to three an hour to Edinburgh (58-84 mins). Driving: 30
mins to Dundee, 45 to the M90, an hour to Perth and 90 mins to
Edinburgh.


Schools 

Primaries: quality indicators at Lawhead are "good", says Education
Scotland, and "satisfactory" for Canongate, while Greyfriars RC has no
current report. Secondaries: Madras College is "good" or "very good".


Hang out at... 

Decent local pubs. Northpoint cafe where William and Kate met. Or
local star the Seafood Ristorante - new owners and new chef.


Where to buy 

A wonderful selection of beautiful property, for a price, though. Much
of the centre is a conservation area, the oldest part (the lanes by
the sea), with 16th- and 17th-century cottages, but mostly with
Georgian and Victorian stone townhouses and terraces. Hunt for more
affordable suburbans south-west past the botanic gardens. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £500,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £300,000-£500,000. Semis, £225,000-£500,000. Terraces
and cottages, £200,000-£400,000. Flats, £150,000-£500,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £700-£900pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£1,300-£1,500pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Highly unlikely.


From the streets

Debbie MacCallum 
"Everything is within a five-minute walk, although five sometimes
becomes 15 as it's a friendly place."

Anna Inglis 
"Two vast beaches, cute cafes, and ice-cream shops - Jannettas is a
must."


Live in St Andrews? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Bury St Edmunds? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by next Tuesday.


Comments

I'd rather eat wasps.

That's easy to say.

Is it true they taste like bees, but chewier?

I was born in St Andrews and lived my childhood on a farm nearby. I
have a house nearby as well even if I have lived abroad for many
years. It is one of the most overrated place in Scotland. It is a
small and not particularly attractive town. I have lived in many parts
of the world but this is not the most attractive part of Scotland by a
long way. Scotland is a stunning country but other than the golf St
Andrews has little attraction. Of all the places I have lived or
visited Edinburgh remains my favourite.

It is a small and not particularly attractive town.

Not particularly attractive? Some of its attractions are listed in the
article; there's a lot more to the town than the golf. And what's
wrong with small?

Well, my home is Dorset, one of the most beautiful places in the
world. Yet I would cut off my arm rather than live there again. When
you are brought up in a place you see all its faults, alas. For a
visitor St Andrews remains enchanting. Trust me on that.

 