Let's move to Stroud, Gloucestershire: a spirited community in the Cotswolds

Yes, the green welly brigade is in evidence, but this market town is
one of those rare spots in the countryside where Guardian readers can
be out and proud

Cows grazing in a field, with Stroud, Gloucestershire, in the background

Stroud is a welcome corrective to most Cotswolds towns.


What's going for it? 

It's not often one yearns to set eyes upon a concrete multistorey car
park. But Stroud is a welcome corrective to most Cotswolds towns,
which are a succession of cutie pies, all Country Casuals, antiques
shops and unmuddied green wellies, like scoffing three boxes of
Thorntons with The Waltons on loop.

First of all, multistoreys. The town has its pretty moments, but much
of it is ordinary (good ordinary), occasionally shabby (good shabby).
Second, although the green welly brigade is in evidence, it is
outnumbered. There is a Peacocks. There is the great Stroud bookshop.
There is Fat Toni's pizzeria (slogan: "history in the baking"). It has
health-food shops. It has community farms. It has "Britain's first
totally organic cafe". It has a spirited community that likes nothing
more than seeing off Tesco, McDonald's and the BNP while rooting for
trees, hospitals and post offices. That is right: Stroud is one of
those rare spots in the countryside - such as Lewes or Totnes - 
where Guardian readers can be out and proud.


The case against 

Turbo-boost your thighs: it is jolly hilly.


Well connected? 

Trains: Gloucester (20-24 min), Swindon (30 min) and Cheltenham (38-45
min). Driving: 15 min to the M5, 30 min to Gloucester, Cheltenham and
Cirencester, 50 min to Swindon and the M4.


Schools 

Good. Primaries: many "good", with Foxmoor and Uplands "outstanding".
Secondaries: Archway is "good", with Stroud High (girls) and Marling
(boys) "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Its illustrious farmers' market, that organic cafe, Woodruffs, or The
Bell Inn in Selsey.


Where to buy 

The old centre has nice cottages, townhouses and terraces, in Cotswold
stone and brick, many with an industrial past (Stroud has for
centuries been a hub of textile production). Look especially towards
the south-east, such as Park Road and Spring Lane, and heading out on
Bisley Road or London Road towards Bowbridge. Good terraces on Slad
Road or Lansdown. Super-posh along the Frome valley - such as
Rodborough Common, heading south towards fancy Nailsworth and villages
such as North and South Woodchester - or north towards Painswick, to
the villages of Ruscombe and Randwick.

Large detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and
smaller townhouses, £225,000-£450,000. Semis, £175,000-£450,000.
Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£275,000. Flats, £90,000-£300,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £425-£625pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£800-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week 

It is £650,000 and needs complete restoration. But it is a
five-bedroom, grade II-listed Georgian mansion in eight acres of land
(kingsleyevans.co.uk).


From the streets

Ruth Gilliam-Hill 
"The beautiful five valleys, for stunning walks in every direction.
Star Anise and Woodruffs for delicious organic food. A fab farmers'
market every Saturday. Lovely friendly people."

Peter Baxendale 
"The only vegan football team in the world, Forest Green Rovers."

Richard Styles 
"Hundreds of acres of National Trust grassland just a mile or so from
Stroud town centre. They say it's an 'ambitions graveyard' because
you never want to live anywhere else!"



Live in Stroud? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Spalding, Lincolnshire? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 6 February.
 