Let's move to Somers Town: one of London's best-kept secrets

It's ripe with history and character, from magnificent social housing
to spooky churches

Tom Dyckhoff
Somers Town and Euston, north London

Somers Town, north London: "It's gruff around the edges."

What's going for it?

We shan't mention HS2 and the new Euston station (well, OK, just once
more). But 'twas ever thus. Apart from a brief fancy period in the
early 19th century when Charles Dickens and Mary Wollstonecraft lived
here, Somers Town has always been on its uppers, easy prey for grands
projets. When London ended at Euston Road in the 18th century, it was
famous for being where the city chucked its rubbish in mountainous
landfills. By the mid-19th century, London's most notorious slums were
here. In the name of "improvement" and slum clearance, railway
companies saw nothing wrong in charging through the neighbourhood with
new lines, plonking their stations here, rather than posher Bloomsbury
to the south. There's no escape from the railways. That said, the
commuters mostly dart down holes in the ground, leaving Somers Town,
these days, one of London's best-kept secrets, ripe with history and
character, like the magnificent 1920s Ossulston Estate social housing,
Drummond Street's Indian cafes, and the spooky St Pancras Old Church,
one of the oldest sites of worship in London, in whose churchyard the
Hardy Tree grows among gravestones moved by the young Thomas Hardy
(when he was an architect) to make way for St Pancras station;
railways even bothering the dead.


The case against

The disruption of HS2 construction for years to come. Gruff around the
edges. Euston Road is choked with traffic and pollution 24/7.


Well connected?

Trains: I think you'll be OK. Euston, King's Cross, St Pancras and
Marylebone stations are all walkable, with the Bakerloo, Circle,
Hammersmith & City, Northern, Victoria and Metropolitan tube lines on
your doorstep. Driving: why would you? But Euston Road is right there,
if you need it.


Schools

Primaries: Netley, Christ Church CofE and Edith Neville are all
"good", says Ofsted, with St Mary & St Pancras CofE "outstanding".
Secondaries: Maria Fidelis Catholic and Regent High are "good".


Hang out at...

You have the pick of all London has to offer on your doorstep. But
it's hard to beat Malaysian caff Roti King on Doric Way.


Where to buy

There are some stretches of late Georgian and Victorian townhouses,
almost all in flats these days: hunt in the grid around Drummond
Street and Chalton Street. You'll find some modern "luxury
apartments", too. But much of the neighbourhood is in various (and
mostly well-designed) social housing estates, from the late 19th
century to the postwar period. The very odd house, mostly ex-council,
around £850,000-£1m for four to five bedrooms. Flats: three bedrooms,
£600,000-£1.4m; two, £450,000-£1.2m; one, £350,000-£825,000. Rentals:
a one-bedroom flat, £1,450-£3,500pcm; a three-bedroom flat,
£2,200-£4,500pcm.


Bargain of the week

Two-bedroom postwar flat, needs refurbishment; £384,500, with
saffroninternational.com.


From the streets

Jim Sheeran
"A space behind the British Library is being made into a community
garden; hidden restaurant gems like Mai Sushi."


Geoff Kelly
"The Cock Tavern is welcoming and atmospheric."

Live in Somers Town and Euston? Join the debate below

Do you live in Bedford? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 22 January.


Comments

I hear it's a Brill Place. Boom

Shame about the polluted air one has to breath.

Given a stark choice between breathing clean air vs polluted air, I
know which I would choose.

You're paying through the nose for that polluted air!

