Let's move to Hornsey, north London: pricey, yes, but not bad for these parts

Slightly more affordable than its posh neighbours, and it still has a
'proper' high street, nice parks and stout Edwardian pubs

View of Hornsey from Alexandra Palace

Hornsey: 'At least the view from the top of the hill is free.'


What's going for it?

I like a hill. I live on a hill. I get claustrophobic in the vast,
mostly hill-free (or hill-lite) stretches of east or west London. I
can't see out. "Always buy on a hill," an estate agent once told me,
"won't get flooded" - a bit of folk wisdom that, in our benighted
times of April heatwaves, has an added urgency. It's borne out in
social geography, in the UK at least, where posh Johnnies tend to live
on hills, all the better to escape the noxious fumes and hoi polloi.
Most of north London's hills - from Hampstead to Muswell Hill - have
long, long been out of bounds for the likes of us. Hornsey, sliding
down Lea Valley hillside and touched by Harringay and Wood Green, is
still out of bounds, but, I don't know, maybe on a good day, with the
wind behind us, and saving all our pennies from the back of the sofa,
we could club together for a roomshare. Its high street is still
"proper", with hardware shops and "continental grocers" alongside the
inevitable incoming coffee palaces. There's a nook of the old village
by the parish church, nice parks, stout Edwardian pubs such as the
Great Northern Railway Tavern, and, looming above all at the crown of
the hill, the crouching bulk of Alexandra Palace. At least the view
from the top is free.


The case against

Still blooming expensive, just, in the way that London works, not
quite as expensive as its fancier neighbours.


Well connected?

Trains: on the Great Northern line to Moorgate in the City (20 minutes
every 15 minutes) via Highbury and Islington (change to the tube) and
Old Street; and north half hourly to Hertford (32 minutes). Driving:
15 minutes or so to the north circular, 25 to the M1 at Brent Cross
and 30 minutes to the M25.


Schools

Primaries: Campsbourne infant and junior, St Mary's CofE, Rokesly
infant and junior and Weston Park are all "good", Ofsted says.
Secondaries: Greig City academy and Hornsey School for Girls are both
"good".


Hang out at...

The new Intrepid Fork for amazing cakes, or the fabulous Great
Northern Railway Tavern.


Where to buy

It's a late-Victorian and Edwardian kinda place, so it's not short of
sizable townhouses and terraces, most expensive towards Muswell Hill
and Crouch End (and around Priory Park), and in the streets towards
Alexandra Palace. Park Avenue North and South is a classy address.
Cheaper down the hill towards Wood Green. Terraces: four or five
bedrooms, £900,000-£1.7m; three bedrooms, £650,000-£900,000. Flats:
three or four bedrooms, £500,000-£825,000; two bedrooms,
£350,000-£700,000; one bedroom, £300,000-£500,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £1,075-£1,600pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£2,000-£2,300pcm.


Bargain of the week

Four-bedroom, postwar terraced house, a bargain (for here) at
£675,000, with purplebricks.co.uk.


From the streets

Louise Martell
"A more down-to-earth high street than nearby Crouch End. Great pizza
at Tomo."

Laura Coates
"Heron Hawker is perfect for houseplants."

Holly Park
"One Yoga London is a hidden gem."



Live in Hornsey? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Bognor Regis? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 14 May.

