Let's move to Whitley Bay, Tyne and Wear: it has maintained its pride
and beauty

Despite a dose of that dubious urban medicine 'regeneration', it seems to be thriving

The beach at Whitley Bay with St Mary's Island beyond

Whitley Bay, for fine, fresh walks.

What's going for it?

The trouble with British seaside resorts, if reports are to be
believed, is that they fall into two camps: ruined, despairing and
utterly beyond all hope, or Whitstable. If you spend time visiting
every prom, pier, amusement arcade, instant doughnut purveyor, rock
shop and groyne in the country, as I do (everyone needs a hobby), you
will know the truth is more complex. Whitley Bay, for instance, while
having suffered the usual despond when we all started jetting off to
Benidorm, maintained its pride and, importantly, its beauty. There are
few finer, or fresher, walks than along the cliff edge between
Tynemouth and St Mary's lighthouse. The path-cum-prom twists and turns
past low, craggy cliffs, soft sands and wild waters on one side, and
fine Victorian terraces, pleasant cafes and municipal verges on the
other, stopping in for a mooch in the charity shops and independent
stores of Park View and finishing up with a crab sarnie at the
restored and stupendous Spanish City, of Dire Straits fame (pop
culture reference there for the kids). Whitley Bay has had a dose of
that dubious urban medicine "regeneration", but seems to be thriving.
Legions of social media executives haven't downsized here from Jesmond
in Newcastle, and you're not tripping over public art/artists every
five metres.

The case against

Precious little. It's a delight. You've got to withstand the
occasional wind straight outta Siberia, but that goes with the
territory.

Well connected?

Trains: on the Tyne Metro with five trains an hour to central
Newcastle (30 mins). Driving: half an hour to central Newcastle, an
hour to the Northumberland national park.

Schools
Primaries: among many rated "good", says Ofsted, Coquet Park First,
Marine Park First, Southridge First, Valley Gardens Middle and Langley
First are "outstanding". Secondaries: Whitley Bay High and Monkseaton
High are "outstanding".

Hang out at...
Spanish City, with Tunnel Of Love as your earworm. Kith & Kin - local
produce from a young entrepreneur. Papa Ganoush for Persian food. I
could go on.

Where to buy
The older town, east of Whitley Road or Park View, is blessed with
racks of lovely, well-made Victorian terraces and townhouses, right
down to Cullercoats, with its little knot of neighbourly shops and
cafes. The rest is very 1920s, especially around Claremont Road.
Modern surburbans around Red House Drive, north off Hastings Avenue on
the Brierdene estate and in Earsdon village, on the edge of town.
Large detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£750,000. Detacheds and
smaller townhouses, £275,000-£400,000. Semis, £160,000-£475,000.
Terraces and cottages, £130,000-£400,000. Flats, £70,000-£375,000.
Rentals: a one-bed flat, £400-£500pcm; a three-bed house,
£800-£1,200pcm.

Bargain of the week
Three-bed terrace with lovely original features, in need of
modernisation, £189,950, with embleys.co.uk.

From the streets
Simon Ward
'Left Luggage Room at Monkseaton station - a peerless craft ale
venue.'

Ruby Downs
'The lifestyle is wonderful - we can actually afford to buy a flat.'

Live in Whitley Bay? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Chichester? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 16 July.

Comments

The whole coast from Tynemouth up to Whitley Bay is just a gem of a
place to live. Make time for Di Meos on seafront for unbeatable pizza
and home made ice cream.

I grew up in Whitley Bay, and it was fine but nothing special. I left
for a decade in 2005 and the town is a totally different experience.
Its stylish but not extortionate, authentic without being forced, has
heart but also decent planning behind it and nature is cherished and
accentuated.

Come on over!

