Let's move to Ormeau, Belfast: catch it before the gentrifiers do

Ormeau is extraordinary for its ordinariness, and well located for
Belfast's big draws

Ormeau, Belfast: "It still has a bit of shab about it."

What's going for it?

You can tell Ormeau Road has changed when a "locally sourced" ramen
restaurant opens, selling handmade noodles and a
Belfast-by-way-of-Hokkaido flavour fusion. Delicious. Love a ramen,
me. And more power to it.

But still. Ormeau is at the early, innocent stages of gentrification,
which means nu-ramen bars and coffee can peacefully coexist with
credit unions, Oxfams and traditional Irish music spots, and you hope
it will be this way for ever, rather than metamorphosing overnight.
And maybe it will. The place still has a bit of shab about it, and
those with not very long memories will easily remember its
pre-post-Troubles history, which still, occasionally, flashes up. The
developers, though, have moved in, splurging apartment complexes along
the River Lagan, and turning the old Ormeau Bakery buildings into an
apartment complex, called, inevitably, The Bakery.

The district has big pulls: the river, the fabulous park, beautiful
homes, relative quiet and, most important of all, the ability to walk
to Queen's University, Botanic Avenue and the Lyric theatre without
having to dodge the "after-effects" of stag dos and student initiation
ceremonies. Long may it be so.

The case against

Please don't change too much, Ormeau - your extraordinary ordinariness
is your greatest attribute.

Well connected?

Trains: stations at Botanic and Central are walkable. Driving: well,
you could. Walking: it's a half-hour walk to City Hall, 15 mins to
Botanic Avenue and Queen's University. Buses continually ply the main
road.

Schools

Primaries: Holy Rosary and St Michael's are "good", says the Education
Training Inspectorate, with Forge integrated "very good". Secondaries:
no current inspection report for St Joseph's College, but Wellington
College has "significant areas for improvement".

Hang out at...

Bia Rebel, where else? Fabulous. Lots of other nice spots, though,
like General Merchants. And a shout out, of course, for the regular
traditional music sessions at the Errigle Inn.

Where to buy

It's the tree-lined streets of red-brick Victorian townhouses and
terraces that are the draw; cheaper than posher Belfast spots, like
Malone Road. Around South and North Parade by the Park; Deramore and
Haypark Gardens; the dense streets off Haywood Avenue. Much more
suburban in Lower Ormeau around Knockbreda Park, with Victorian and
20s/30s semis, and posh nooks like Hampton Park. Detacheds (just a
few), around £500,000. Townhouses, £200,000‑£400,000. Semis,
£160,000-£260,000. Terraces, £110,000-£200,000. Flats, £110,000+.
Rentals: a three-bedroom house, £650-£850pcm.

Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom Victorian terrace on Deramore Avenue, needs updating,
£149,950, with hamptonestates.co.uk.

From the streets

Trisha Eaton
"Root and Branch for fab coffee, Kaffe O for a Scandi feel, Soul Food
for lovely lunch."

David Barker
"Bread and Banjo for fantastic sourdough"

Live in Ormeau? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Croydon, south London? Do you have a favourite haunt or
a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 10
September.

