Let's move to ...
Brighton

Let's move to Brighton, East Sussex: green, green home of Saint Caroline

The locals may have painted the town Green, but there's an affluence
to the eco currency. And who sent for the Bez-alikes?

The Cricketers and Black Lion pubs in The Lanes, Brighton

Brighton: 'You will seldom spot a Daily Mail in your neighbour's recycling.'

What's going for it?

Aside from the fact that it is on a coastline at the end of the
country, threatened by sea level rise and postglacial rebound,
Brighton is possibly the best place in the UK from which to fight the
climate crisis. Calm down, Bristol, European Green Capital 2015: yes,
you are incredibly woke, too. Only, you are not home to the UK's first
(and still only) Green party MP, Saint Caroline Lucas, or the UK's
highest number of Green councillors - 19, as of May's elections. The
Greens also topped the polls in last month's European elections, with
35.7% of the vote. However, you may struggle slightly to square the
property prices - of London proportions - with your belief that a
truly green philosophy entails a fundamental restructuring, if not
overthrow, of capitalist economics. But at least you will seldom spot
a Daily Mail in your neighbour's recycling.

The case against

Embrace the grime, love the seediness. Ditto with stag/hen parties,
Bez-alikes partying like it's 1999, and sundry eccentrics. Don't
mention S******* Railway.

Well connected?

I said, don't mention S******* Railway. Trains: north to London Bridge
(66 mins) and beyond, or London Victoria (1 hr); east to Eastbourne
(40 mins) and Hastings (70 mins); west to Chichester (55 mins) and
Portsmouth (1 hr 21 mins). Driving: its parking, traffic and one-way
system are enough for you to dump your car; if not, Gatwick (eek) is
40 mins.

Schools

Primaries: all but one are "good", Ofsted says, with Patcham Infant
and Downs Junior and Infant "outstanding". Secondaries: Patcham High,
Varndean, Dorothy Stringer and Cardinal Newman Catholic are all
"good".

Hang out at...

You won't go thirsty, hungry or unentertained here. But top of the
tree has to be meat-free Terre a Terre.

Where to buy

The centre is "famous" Brighton, either the net of old cottages in the
Lanes or North Laine conservation areas, or classic Regency or
Victorian stucco in the grand squares, or cute streets off Western
Road. More of the same, just less touristy, in Seven Dials, West Hill
and Clifton Hill. Immediately north are Five Ways and the London Road
neighbourhoods of stucco mid-Victorian terraces, and dense suburbs,
such as Preston Park and Moulsecoomb (less cutesy, cheaper). Large
suburban homes roll up and down the hills: Withdean (with Dyke Road,
the priciest part of town), Patcham and Hollingbury. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £600,000-£2m; up to £3m by the seafront. Detacheds and
smaller townhouses, £400,000-£600,000. Semis, £300,000-£1.2m. Smaller
terraces and cottages, £300,000-£500,000. Flats, £175,000-£875,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £700-£1,600pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£1,200-£2,750pcm.

Bargain of the week

Large, interwar three-bed semi, with big garden, needs modernisation,
£625,000, with kingandchasemore.co.uk.

Let's move to Clitheroe, Lancashire: no-nonsense and gorgeous

From the streets

Rick Williams
"The cycle lane system is poor and needs to be hugely improved to get
more people on two wheels and reduce traffic."

Phil Buckingham
"The Store shop is good - you can 'weigh and save', so less packaging.
Lacks a contemporary arts centre/gallery."

Chris Hall
"Downs: narrow pavements, standing off against off-road buggies, and
having to drive half a mile away to park."

Live in Brighton? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Hemel Hempstead? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2 July.


Comments

Brighton is great if you are young and of the age that goes out a lot.
The music scene is amazing, the pubs plentiful, everything someone in
their 20s or 30s could want.

Shame they can't afford to live there anymore.

does Brighton (in the summer) remind people of San Francisco? Steep
city streets, salty sea breeze, quirky, weird, LGBT+ scene, bearded
people in hipster cafes talking tech business, massive homelessness
and drugs problems, affluence and poverty living side-by-side...I love
both.

