Let's move to: Ventnor, Isle of Wight - defiantly Victorian, with a hipster sheen

The town is strung out on hairpin bends winding down to the sea

A Summers day in Ventnor, Isle of Wight

Ventnor: "There's a lot of keeping-calm-and-carrying-on going on."

What's going for it?

Long before the climate emergency, those in the 19th century without a
posting in Delhi or Singapore would come to Ventnor to experience the
tropics. The town is a world apart, sunbathing alone beneath its own
vast windbreak, St Boniface Down, with just the ocean for company. Its
famed microclimate was catnip for Victorians. Consumptive patients
desperately sucked in its warm, moist air at the Royal National
Hospital for Diseases of the Chest; botanists and ecologists chased
its rare butterflies, lizards and odd flora, a lost world or Galápagos
just south of Newport; thrill-seekers explored Blackgang Chine,
Britain's oldest theme park; and the rest of them hit the bandstand
for tea, cake and a shimmy. It remains a defiantly Victorian place,
but having had its dose of inevitable seaside decline, in recent years
it has acquired a light hipster sheen. There's a lot of upcycling,
vintage and keeping-calm-and-carrying-on going on, a fair amount of
William-Morris-meets-mid-century-modern and a cultural scene in rude
health. Though I do worry for that microclimate. Might get a tad
Saharan, now the rest of the UK is turning tropical.

The case against

Barely a flat surface, it's awfully steep pretty much everywhere.
Despite recent improvements, it still suffers from a seasonal economy.

Well connected?

A bit of a schlep. Trains: no, you'll need to drive 15 minutes to
Shanklin for the Island Line, every half hour to Ryde (about 20
minutes). Driving: 30 minutes to Ryde and Newport, 40 to Cowes. Also
the small matter of crossing the Solent, if you want to island hop.

Schools

Primaries: the only choice is St Francis Catholic & CofE, which was in
special measures three years ago, but is now an academy; no inspection
report yet, says Ofsted. Secondaries: The Island Free School is
"good".

Hang out at...

Cantina is great for coffee, bread and lunches. I'm a sucker for the
seaside pub, Spyglass, even if it has been decorated by Captain
Pugwash. The locals drink at the Crab & Lobster. Crab Shed and
Boathouse at Steephill Cove are the business, too.

Where to buy

The town is strung out on hairpin bends winding down to the sea. It's
mostly a 19th-century affair, with some postwar detacheds. A wonderful
line in gothic bargeboarded Victoriana, with large, often spectacular
villas. Plenty of smaller cottages tucked down stone-walled alleys.
Lots of oddities. Secluded Bonchurch is lovely, too, as are
neighbouring St Lawrence and Niton. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£1.4m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £225,000-£450,000.
Semis, £130,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages, £150,000-£300,000.
Flats, £100,000-£325,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £420-£520pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £820-£920pcm.

Bargain of the week

A dated, five-bedroom house with sea views, £365,000, with
watsonbullporter.co.uk.

From the streets

Sarah Carter
"Good bus service. The micro climate is fantastic."

Ann Underwood
"Buzzards, foxes, badgers, red squirrels and wall lizards. But finding
some of Ottolenghi's ingredients might be a challenge."

Live on the Isle of Wight? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Buxton? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 3 September.


Comments

My father manned an anti aircraft unit on Boniface Down during WW2.
Sunbathed during very hot March early summer heatwave.

I lived on the Island for 7 years during the 1970's and Ventnor was
seen as quaint by people like me who lived in Bembridge! Why the
mention of schools? This presupposes that couples of child bearing age
could find work; unlikely. Good for retirees with money and decent
wheels.

It used to have two railway stations on different lines. Quite
extraordinary for such a small place.
