Let's move to Tavistock, Devon: Dartmoor photobombs every street

Its beautiful architecture is mostly down to a spot of relatively
benign dictatorship

River Tavy, Tavistock, Devon

Tavistock, Devon: 'It's rarely rammed with tourists.'


What's going for it? 

What a joyful town Tavistock is. Is there something in the Tavy? Or
maybe it's the town's geographical DNA. The up-down topography,
perhaps; the rollercoaster hills, Dartmoor photobombing at the end of
every street? Its position, on the "other" side of Devon, means it's
rarely rammed with tourists and too far from anywhere much to have
succumbed to chainstores and Frankie & Benny's. Instead its centre is
plump with (seemingly) perky shops, pubs, cafes and all manner of
enterprises, like Creber's grocery and Warrens bakery. Every street
and alley is a delight, its beautiful architecture mostly down to a
spot of relatively benign dictatorship. The Dukes of Bedford dominated
the town until the 20th century, and the Bedfords were very partial to
a grand design; it was they who commissioned Covent Garden's piazza in
London in the 17th century, bringing classical architecture to
barbarous England, and they liberally peppered Tavistock with equally
exotic delights. PS: you're too late to fatten your goose for
Christmas; Tavistock's famous Goose Fair has just finished. What about
a turkey crown from Iceland?


The case against 

Relatively off the beaten track, which has its advantages and its
disadvantages. No trains (see below).


Well connected? 

Trains: not in the town, but, tantalisingly, five miles away in
Gunnislake, across the Tamar in Cornwall. Services every two hours to
Plymouth (45 mins). Driving: 20 mins to the A30, 25 to Okehampton and
Launceston, 30 mins (if you're lucky) to Plymouth. Buses: several a
day connect to Okehampton, Plymouth and Dartmoor.


Schools 

Primaries: Whitchurch Community, just out of town, is "good", says
Ofsted, and St Rumon's CofE Infants "outstanding". Secondaries:
Tavistock College is "good".

Hang out at... 

The Cornish Arms serves some good upper-crust pub food; cosy, too.


Where to buy 

The historic centre has some lovely period homes, especially west, on,
appropriately enough, West Street, and Plymouth Road up to Watts Road,
including some very fine Regency houses; as well as up the hill around
Bannawell Street for cottages. Search south of the river around
Whitchurch Road, too. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£450,000. Semis, £185,000-£400,000. Terraces and
cottages, £150,000-£275,000. Flats, £125,000-£325,000. Rentals: a
few; a one-bedroom flat, £500pcm; a three-bedroom house, £800pcm.



Bargain of the week 

Huge, nine-bedroom, grade II-listed 17th-century house, with
19th-century renovations, plus your own tower, £650,000,
struttandparker.com.


From the streets

Sarah Denne 
"Tavy Cleave on Dartmoor: a barren but beautiful walk with deep
swimming pools. I suspect Tavistock is not bursting with Guardian
readers."

Peter Fox 
"A focus on buying local produce and supporting local shops."


Live in Tavistock? Join the debate below.


Do you live in Wembley, north-west London? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by next
Tuesday.

