Let's move to St Leonards-on-Sea, East Sussex: the yin to Hastings'
yang

This seaside town has stepped out of the shadow of its twin. One could
say it was gentrifying, were it not built for the gentry

Houses in St Leonards in Warriors Square, East Sussex

St Leonards-on-Sea, East Sussex: 'A refined, Regency place.'



What's going for it? 

St Leonards has come of age. For years, all talk has been of its
elderly twin, Hastings, newly colonised by rat-race escapees, with
their boutiques selling linocut prints or vintage eccles cakes. But
slowly, to the west, its neighbour has been undergoing its own
metamorphosis. It is very much yin to Hastings' yang. Whereas
Hastings' Old Town is all higgledy half-timber and tattooed sea dogs,
hipster or otherwise, St Leonards has from its birth been a refined,
Regency place. Work began on the town in 1826, by a prescient
down-from-London-er, James Burton, a property developer who built much
of Bloomsbury, and his son, Decimus, an architect. Their work
survives, its stucco now largely freshly painted and reappreciated
after the doldrum decades. Shab remains, but also the flipside, a
slightly anarchic freedom and odd shops that come from low (although
risen) property prices. One could say St Leonards was gentrifying,
were it not in fact built for the gentry.


The case against 

Don't mention the G-word, or call it, as some property column or other
(was it me?) did a decade ago, "Portobello-on-Sea". It is not,
although the interiors bloggers are coming. Still host to the usual
ingrained seaside town problems. Traffic.


Well connected? 

Trains: two stations, St Leonards Warrior Square and West St Leonards,
to London Charing Cross (90-100 mins), via Tunbridge Wells (34-45
mins) and Sevenoaks (54-65 mins); direct to London Victoria (2 hrs);
to Eastbourne (23-33 mins), to Brighton (75 mins) and to Gatwick
airport (90 mins). Driving: sluggish, both to Eastbourne (40 mins) and
Brighton (1 hr if you are lucky) and north via the A21.


Schools 

Primaries: St Mary Star of the Sea Catholic, St Paul's CofE,
Silverdale, Christ Church CofE and West St Leonards are all "good",
says Ofsted. Secondaries: St Leonards Academy and Saxon Mount are both
"good".


Hang out at...

Norman Road and Kings Road are where the hepcats hang, perhaps at the
brilliant Kino cinema, Half Man! Half Burger! or St Clement's.


Where to buy 

Some very fine architecture - a smorgasbord of riches. Want period
details? You got 'em. Start with the fabulous original waterfront of
Regency homes (including James Burton's) on the Marina. Explore the
leafy avenues rising up the hill behind. There are excellent
mid-Victorians east towards Hastings, around Warrior Square. West,
find later Victorians around Pevensey Road and Filsham Road, often
with fine views. Heading out to Silverhill, there are excellent
streets of 19th-century townhouses off London Road. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £500,000-£900,000, though higher for humungous
bling. Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £300,000-£500,000. Semis,
£200,000-£600,000. Terraces and cottages, £175,000-£350,000.
Flats, £90,000-£400,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£450-£675pcm; a three-bedroom house, £875-£1,075pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Five-bedroom Victorian townhouse, needs refurbishment, £250,000 with
pcmestateagents.co.uk.



From the streets

Clare Tomlinson 
"A vibrant community, full of creativity, independent shops and great
places to eat. Try Fika, Ghurka Chef and Goat Ledge."

Amy Krang 
"Inspiring, with great architecture and lovely sea views."



Live in St Leonards-on-Sea? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ticehurst, Burwash and the High Weald? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by 15 October.


Comments

A lot of the residential architecture in East Sussex is lovely, but
it's of little use if there aren't any jobs, or enough amenities or
shops. Whisper it, but even Brighton suffers from this.

The reality is Hastings and St.Leonards are now one town. Great place
to live and work. Ignore the ludicrous comment about traffic. There is
no congestion or rush hour to speak off. A sunny summer weekend brings
loads of visitors of course. That's partly why the town has so much
life.

Long may it be out of reach of London commuters.

Have lived here for over 10 years and love it. Great for community
life, lots of festivals and events - a high street full of interesting
independent shops and cafes (both boutuquey and the sort of butchers,
green grocers bookshops and bakers that are disappearing from most
high streets), some decent pubs and some of the best cafes and
restaurants in this corner of East Sussex. More a live music scene
than there used to be with opening of Piper a…

Lived here for a while, loved it. Beautiful architecture, interesting
people, while it may be slightly down at heel it's definitely on its
way up... unlike the poor town centre of Hastings. Travelling out
anywhere just needs planning and time.

 