Let's move to Helmsley, North Yorkshire: super sweet and picture perfect

The town is straight off a box of fudge, all honeyed stone and pansies
waving from prize-winning baskets

Helmsley, North Yorkshire:

Helmsley, North Yorkshire: "It has streets of rigorously renovated
and scrupulously scrubbed 18th-century cottages."

What's going for it?

Helmslet's so sweet I can feel the cavities forming in my teeth from
10 miles away. The town is straight off a box of fudge, all honeyed
stone and pansies waving from prize-winning hanging baskets. Utterly
delicious, with its Norman castle, Palladian pile, secret garden and
streets of rigorously renovated and scrupulously scrubbed 18th-century
cottages. Just not very good for the waistline. Imagine living here:
you'd need a will of iron, blinkers or a StairMaster tethered to
your shins to cope with the tea shops and bakers, delis and grocers,
selling sucrose in various forms: pickles, preserves, jams, chutneys,
chocs, fudge, treacle, Yorkshire curd tarts, mint choc chips... To
survive, work it all off in the open air pool - don't worry,
it's heated. Or look beneath the packaging and see the earthier
market town it was, and sometimes still is. Market day, Friday
mornings, perhaps, when the tarpaulined stalls are hugger-mugger. Or
on a Sunday afternoon in summer, when the leavening presence of
leathered bikers congregate with coach parties in Market Place,
pausing for a pint en route to Scarborough. Some of the best charity
shops in the north, according to resident Simon Read - a virtue of
an ageing population.

The case against

Too sweet, too Tory, too touristy for some.

Well connected?

You'll need a car (or a Harley). Hardly isolated, but not in the thick
of things, either. Trains: the nearest is at Thirsk, 25 mins away, on
the east coast mainline, though you generally have to change at York
or Northallerton for the longer distance trains. Driving: 40 mins to
the A1(M), 50 to York or the coast at Scarborough.

Schools

Primaries: Helmsley Community and nearby St Hilda's Ampleforth CofE
are "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: just outside town, Ryedale is
"outstanding".

Hang out at:

Summat's Brewing, a stripped-back microbrewery and pub. Plenty of
coaching inns in town, such as the Feathers, Black Swan or Feversham
Arms. The stars, though, are just outside, such as the Hare at
Scawton, and the Star Inn and Pheasant at Harome.

Where to buy

I hope you like stone, preferably cream and honey coloured. There's
not much else, whether built in 1790 or 1984. The entire town is a
delight, so it's hard to go wrong. Cottages, Georgian townhouses,
Victorian bargeboards: fill your boots with period details.
Farmhouses, too, working or otherwise. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£600,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£600,000. Semis, £200,000-£350,000. Terraces and
cottages, £175,000-£300,000. Flats, £150,000-£350,000. Rentals:
not much; a one-bedroom flat, £400pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£1,300pcm.

Bargain of the week

Very little: this sizeable, four-bedroom flat near the castle is
£230,000, with boultoncooper.co.uk.


Live in Helmsley? Join the debate below.

From the streets

Simon Read
"Ryeburn ice-cream parlour (danger to waistline)."

Juliet Stott
"Mannion is a fab small cafe that serves homemade gourmet food. Also
the walled garden and its amazing vine house cafe."

Do you live in Lancaster? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 20 August.


Comments

"The main downside when I lived there was the focus on pheasant
shooting. The local clothes shop displays were all tweeds, guns,
pheasant feathers and 'the big five' (pheasant, grouse, and I can't
remember what else). The pubs all proudly support it because it brings
in tourism. I'd regularly see convoys of big shiny Range Rovers
heading up into the hills for a days shooting, and then see those same
day-trippers in the pubs later on; decked out in..."

"Helmsley is a beautiful, beautiful town, but prohibitively expensive.
I grew up in the area, but had to move away as there's no way I
would be able to afford a home there; as did a lot of people I grew up
with.

Hey look the family's market town finally makes the rotation.

Helmsley is a tourist trap, but it is also a genuinely nice town with
a functional market, an industrial estate with some of the less
glamourous stuff, and most of the shops you need for day to day
living. And, of course, you have all the tourist stuff in town and in
the NYM right on the doorstep (literally or figuratively
respectively).

Malton is well worth considering too. I've lived in York/Harrogate
most of my life and often passed through Malton on the way somewhere
else - then it was bypassed. It was only this year when I went walking
with friends did I discover the old lovely market town. Much less
touristy than Helmsley or where I live. Great public transport links
(Transpennine express direct to York, Leeds and Manchester) and a
regular bus service compared to Helmsley"

Helmsley is absolutely lovely. North York Moors on the doorstep. Good
bookshops as well. Can't ask for more

