Let's move to Oswestry, Shropshire: chocolate-box pretty with skeletons in its past

It has seen battles aplenty and the scars are there, if you care to look

Oswestry, Shropshire

Oswestry, Shropshire: "It's happy in its slumber these days."



What's going for it?

With its red-brick Georgian townhouses, porticoed coaching inns,
award-winning bookshop and black-and-white half-timbered cottages,
Oswestry looks harmless, as pretty as a picture, as if it had peeled
itself off the lid of a box of fudge fancies. Don't be fooled. We are
in border country here, and any border country hides a sizable
cupboard of skeletons in its past. Oswestry has seen battles aplenty,
horrifying dismemberments (don't even think of Googling the tale of
poor Oswald of Northumbria's arm), pillaging, and regular burnings to
the ground. It's a wonder there's anything left of the place and its
people. The scars are there, if you care to look, deeply incised in
the landscape beneath the undergrowth, like the mammoth iron-age fort
of Old Oswestry, looming at the city limits (and home to Guinevere -
yes, that Guinevere), and Offa's Dyke, a few minutes further. This is
a place that has been fought over for millennia. It's happy in its
slumber these days. Don't mention the wars. Let sleeping dogs lie.


The case against

It's a trek away from anywhere (but a lovely trek), and there's no
train station in town (though there is one nearby, at Gobowen). It
suffers, like so many places, from a spot of town-centre blues,
although there are plans afoot for revitalisation. Culture-wise, it
could do with some rocket fuel; the less easily entertained and those
with metropolitan habits should look elsewhere.


Well connected?

Trains: no, but nearby Gobowen station has hourly trains to Wrexham
(18 mins), Chester (40 mins) and Shrewsbury (18 mins). Driving: it's
25 mins to Wrexham, 40 mins to Chester and Shrewsbury, and just over
an hour to the M6.


Schools

Primaries: Woodside, The Meadows, Our Lady & St Oswald's Catholic and
Morda C of E are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: The Marches is
"good".


Hang out at...

Booka, the town's much-loved independent bookshop, and the Fat Rabbit
vegan cafe. There are a lot of pubs for one small town. Sebastians is
still the local lovely stalwart, with handy rooms upstairs if you
overindulge.


Where to buy

The large town centre is well stocked with cottages and Georgian
townhouses. Look south and west, on and off Victoria Road to Morda
Road and down to Morda itself, for sizable period detacheds and semis,
some fabulous late Victorians and Edwardians. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £400,000-£550,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£175,000-£400,000. Semis, £125,000-£280,000. Terraces and cottages,
£75,000-£250,000. Flats, £75,000-£180,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £300-£400pcm; a three-bedroom house, £550-£750pcm.


Bargain of the week

An absolutely delightful, large five-bedroom detached Edwardian house;
needs a spot of updating. £360,000, with woodheadsalesandlettings.com.


From the streets

Ian Cholmondeley
"Stonehouse Brewery, where you can sit in the orchard in summer and
drink beer brewed on the premises, and eat pizza. They also distil
Henstone gin on site."

Phil Griffiths
"Friendly, community-minded place. Drive to Liverpool, Manchester or
Welsh coast in under an hour. Welcome, gentle pace. Shame about Owen
Paterson MP."

Dave Ward
"Booka, our super independent bookshop. Four traditional butchers."



Live in Oswestry? Join the debate below.

Do you live in West Didsbury, Manchester? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
7 May.

