Let's move to Hertford: if it's cool enough for George Ezra...

A picturesque commuter town (with a fine collection of toothbrushes)

Riverside Walk, Hertford

Riverside living in Hertford, Hertfordshire.


What's going for it?

Hertford is a gentle place of small pleasures, like its greatest son
George Ezra. Everyone fancies a bit of George - even if it is just
singing karaoke drunk at a 'Spoons on a Friday night. Likewise, only
the harshest of hearts could savage Hertford. It might not be where
you want your life to end up, but there are worse places. Its grand
Saxon street pattern sprawled across the confluence of four rivers,
its castle grounds and handsome centre of Georgian townhouses draped
in creepers, and half-timbered salmon-pink cottages, speak of a time
when Hertford was a big kahuna. Local lore even suggests this is the
burial place of the Holy Grail, lurking somewhere in mysterious
tunnels beneath the streets.

These days, though, Hertford is comfortable with a more sedate lot in
life, a picturesque commuter town for those priced out of Edmonton.
The museum has the largest collection of toothbrushes in the country
(plucked from the Addis factory when it closed). Enjoying a pint on
the riverside terrace at the Woolpack; small pleasures. That's not to
say Hertford can't cut some rug when it wants to. Look at the 1970s
theatre and arts centre, poised for reinvention by zippy architects
Carmody Groarke, as avant garde as anything one could find in, ooh, St
Albans.


The case against

Gentle pleasures won't cut it for some.


Well connected?

Trains: five or so an hour from its two stations to London Moorgate
(via Highbury & Islington) or Liverpool Street (via Tottenham Hale),
around 50 minutes; hourly to Stevenage to connect with the east coast
mainline (around 13 minutes). Driving: 15 minutes to the A1 (M), 20 to
the M25 or the M11, 45 to Stansted airport.


Schools

Primaries: Bengeo, St Joseph's Catholic, St Andrew CofE, Hollybush,
Morgans and Mill Mead are all "good", says Ofsted, with Abel Smith and
Simon Balle "outstanding". Secondaries: Richard Hale and The Sele are
"good", with Simon Balle "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Lussmanns. All you'd want in a brasserie (black cherry and kirsch
tiramisu). A sustainable menu and lots of accolades.


Where to buy

There's a surprisingly large historic centre with all your usuals
plus, on and off the main roads out of town, some very good Victorians
and occasional Regency between London and Ware Roads eastwards,
especially.

Also Queen's Road ("one of Hertford's premier roads") and Hagsdell
Road, south and around. Bengeo for suburbans. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £800,000-£2.5m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£525,000-£800,000. Semis, £350,000-£1m. Terraces and cottages,
£300,000-£750,000. Flats, £200,000-£625,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £700-£950pcm; a three-bedroom house, £1,200-£2,700pcm.


Bargain of the week

Potential for renovation. Three-bedroom Victorian terrace, £375,000,
with williamhbrown.co.uk.


From the streets

Tom Handysides
"Long tailbacks every rush hour, and nasty rat runs in narrow
residential roads like Nelson Street. But good real ale and craft
beer."

Peter Dougherty
"Giambrone's cafe - the best coffee in town."



Do you live in Kendal, Cumbria? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 21 May.




Comments

These articles don't really change in format, but I think it would be
nice if you would rate places for sustainability.

The train service looks quite frequent but the journey time is
surprisingly long-winded, and apparently trains serving Hertford North
are often cancelled. Why not move out to Peterborough and save some
money? It's the same length of journey, apparently.

Weird that the article doesn't mention Hartham Common, which is one of
the first things you see if you actually visit the town! Hartham is a
lovely green space in the middle of Hertford right next to the town
centre - enjoyed families and people of all ages for everything from
sports, events (funfair comes to town three times a year, and the
circus every autumn) to just paddling in the River Beane on lazy
summer days. Having the common as the foc…

Clearly two best cafes are Mudlarks which is a community run cafe
selling great food and great coffee; and there's the Coffee Lab which
is just cool. Loads of restaurants for everyone. Turkish community
bringing great food and much needed diversity. Spent 50 years as a
south Londoner. Now I Love Hertford!

