Let's move to Didsbury: a Mancunian mash-up

If the metropolitan elite are not your bosom buddies, it's probably
not for you

Burton Road west Didsbury, south Manchester

West Didsbury - one of the priciest parts of Manchester.

What's going for it?

There are many Didsburys. There's the teeny Lancashire hamlet, all
lanes and rose-strewn cottages huddled round St James's church, caught
in a meandering curl of the river Mersey. Then, confusingly, there is
Didsbury Village, not a village at all, of course, but an estate
agents' "Village", up the road from the actual village. Keep up. It's
not at all village-like, being more like a normal town centre stuffed
with Subways, passing lorries and Greggs, but contains a lovely cheese
shop, a good butcher, a purveyor of sushi, and opticians selling
"eyewear". Then there is West Didsbury, which rocks more of an artisan
coffee, slinky casual dining and boutique chocolatier kind of vibe.
These three make up the Didsbury Of Popular Culture, the butt of
jokes, natural habitat of the north-west's metropolitan elite, a kind
of Mancunian mash-up of Notting Hill and Hackney with more umbrellas.
And not forgetting East Didsbury, which everyone seems to, perhaps
because it is more affordable. It contains a Travelodge, a Tesco
superstore and a Cineworld multiplex and couldn't pass for a village
even if its streets were bumper-to-bumper with combine harvesters.

The case against

One of the priciest parts of Manchester, East Didsbury excepted. And,
if the metropolitan elite are not your bosom buddies, probably not for
you. The sometimes not-that-distant hum of M60 and Manchester airport.

Well connected?

Trains: East Didsbury takes you to Manchester Piccadilly two times an
hour (9-14 mins). Tram: three stops on the Metrolink, with St Peter's
Square 22 mins away (every 6 to 12 mins). Driving: a half-hour drive
into town, 15 mins to the airport. Right on the M60, the A34 and the
M56 for escapes; you can be in the countryside in minutes, the Peak
District in half an hour.

Schools

Primaries: West Didsbury CofE, St Paul's CofE, St Ambrose RC and Old
Moat are all "good", says Ofsted, with St Catherine's RC, Beaver Road
and Didsbury CofE "outstanding". Secondaries: nearby Loreto High and
Chorlton High are "good", with Burnage Academy (boys) "outstanding".

Hang out at...

Take your pick from the garlanded Hispi, the Lime Tree, Indique and
Volta, and many more.

Where to buy

This is mostly a neighbourbood of large, handsomely made Victorian
redbrick semis and villas. In Didsbury itself there are huge piles on,
and off, Wilmslow Road. The actual old village has cottages aplenty.
West Didsbury, centred on the main drag, Burton Road, and the Albert
Road conservation area, has streets of slightly smaller semis and
townhouses. East Didsbury has mostly interwar semis. Large semis and
townhouses, £550,000-£1.4m. Smaller semis, £200,000-£550,000. Terraces
and cottages, £420,000. Flats, £120,000-£450,000. Rentals: a one-bed
flat, £500-£800pcm; a three-bed house, £850-£1,650pcm.

Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom postwar semi right by Burton Road, "priced to sell" at
£180,000 with yopa.co.uk.

From the streets

Doug Battersby:
"Sip, a friendly wine bar, is justly a local favourite."

Richard Berry:
"Hidden gem: the Albert Bowling and Tennis Club. Fridays are popular
with families."

Do you live in Didsbury? Join the debate below.

Do you live in either central Brighton or Grimsby? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 4 June.

