Let's move to Cardigan, Ceredigion: all bushy-tailed and bustling

There are few places in better spirits than this remote and ancient
place


The River Teifi, Cardigan: the nearby coast has everything from rugged
cliffs and sandy beaches to secret coves.

The River Teifi, Cardigan: the nearby coast has everything from rugged
cliffs and sandy beaches to secret coves.

What's going for it?

Hardcore, the Cardigans. They take no nonsense. Owain Gwynedd,
Cadwaladr ap Gruffydd and Gruffydd ap Rhys kicked out the Normans,
razing the castle and building their own, thank you very much, which
stands there to this day. The relative remoteness of Ceredigion, and,
of course, the doughty character of its inhabitants, has long made
this stretch of coast a bastion of Welsh culture and language. The
nearby coast has everything from rugged cliffs and sandy beaches to
secret coves - not to mention dolphin sightings. Today, the castle,
where the first eisteddfod was held, back in the misty reaches of
time, is freshly renovated and revived, as a home to Welsh poetry jams
and whatnot. And the rest of the town? I've rarely seen a place in
better spirits. The high street is all bushy-tailed with Specsavers,
nail bars, butchers, greengrocers beside sans-serif bakers and kool
koffee spots with hashtags. There's culture aplenty: a great cinema,
Theatr Mwldan, a film society, and an "alternative" theatre venue, the
Small World Theatre. This is one of those corners of Wales that has
long attracted outcasts and hippies, rat-race escapees, such as the
brains behind the Meghan-sported Hiut jeans, and those who have
frankly had enough of everything (who can blame them right now?).

The case against

Precious little. Unless you can't live without motorways and
skyscrapers.

Well connected?

On the edge of the country, obviously. Trains: no, the nearest
stations are Carmarthen and Aberystwyth. Driving: 30 minutes to
Aberaeron or Fishguard, 50 minutes to Carmarthen, one hour to
Aberystwyth; excellent coves and beaches such as Cilborth up the road.
Decent local buses to destinations including Aberaeron (hourly, one
hour) and Aberystwyth (hourly, one hour and 45 minutes).

Schools

Primaries: Gynradd Aberteifi has no inspection report, says Estyn, the
education inspectorate for Wales. Secondaries: Uwchradd Aberteifi is
"adequate" with prospects for improvement "good".

Hang out at...

Lots to choose from: Fforest's Pizzatipi and Tafarn Smwglin. The Ferry
Inn is lovely, or there's 1176 for fancy. The addictive sourdough at
Bara Menyn (Welsh for "bread and butter") and newbie Crwst, a former
hardware shop turned cafe.


Where to buy

Two choices. The Old Town, huddled round the castle and quayside, with
lanes of brightly painted or grey-stone cottages and townhouses. Or
the New Town, up the hill, for Victorians to moderns, townhouses to
suburbans. Detacheds and townhouses, £200,000-£500,000. Semis,
£100,000-£350,000. Terraced houses and cottages, £100,000-£175,000.
Very little in the way of rentals.

Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom period terrace house in the Old Town, needs a bit of
work, £95,000, with jjmorris.com.

From the streets

Vicky Wade
"Everywhere is within walking distance."

Kate Rhys
"Don't even think of moving here unless you plan to learn and speak
Welsh."

Live in Cardigan? Join the debate below

Do you live in West Kirby? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 30 July.


Comments

Always loved around Cardigan, since I went to my first Urdd camp when
I was 12. The camp was in Llangrannog. I made my parents come to this
coast just after, and all our holidays were spent in Tresaith,
Llangrannog and the like for many years. Then my husband and I came
with our children; we spent many of our holidays here. But now the
entire area is blighted with caravans; even the cliffs above the
waterfall at Tresaith is full of caravans.

We drove through this town on the way to four winds in Gwbert and it
seemed lovely and bustling. Pizza tipi by the river was heaving and
there was a great little slow dough bakery. Not sure I would live
there as the fourwinds cottage was beautiful, but aptly named. Amazing
beaches nearby, many national trust. And loads of dolphins

