Let's move to Bognor Regis, West Sussex: it's used to being the butt
of jokes

The seaside resort, whose name was immortalised by George V, is ripe for reinvention

View from the Pier at Bognor Regis West Sussex

Bognor Regis: a curious beast.

What's going for it?

Bognor is still waiting for its Brighton moment. Or its Margate
moment. Even an Eastbourne moment would do. A House of Lords report
demands that seaside resorts reinvent themselves, and Bognor's local
council has promised future creative digital hubs and, doubtless,
co-working spaces and yuzu juice for all. Bognor is a curious beast.
To the east, Butlin's. To the west, the private estates and
get-orf-my-land of Aldwick Bay. In the middle, a humdrum town centre.
Alas, Bognor Regis is used to being the butt of jokes, by fortune of
its name, a magnificently British combination of highfalutin Regis,
undercut by lavatorial Bognor, perfectly encapsulated in George V's
fabled "Bugger Bognor" cry. The town seems destined for self-mockery
and understatement. It stars in Don't Forget The Driver, the Toby
Jones comedy about coach parties; 'nuff said. The International
Birdman Competition takes place on its pier, a celebration of plucky,
inventive failure. But, dammit, this is where James Joyce wrote part
of Finnegans Wake, where William Blake lived. This is where the
magnificent Picturedrome is. With form like that, bugger Brighton!

The case against

With gumption it could make more of itself. It has the usual seaside
despond slapped beside the regal mansions of Aldwick Bay. Butlin's
dominates the town.

Well connected?

Trains: half-hourly direct to London (1hr 45 mins) via Gatwick (69
mins); other lines require a change at Barnham, with three or four an
hour to Chichester (14 mins quickest), to Brighton hourly (55 mins)
and half-hourly to Southampton (75-90 mins). Driving: 20 mins to
Chichester, 25 mins to the A3, 30 mins to Portsmouth, an hour to
Southampton.

Schools

Primaries: Rose Green Infant and Junior, Nyewood CofE Infant and
Junior, Bersted Green, South Bersted, Edward Bryant, St Mary's
Catholic and Downview are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: The
Regis School is "good".

Hang out at... 

The lovely new ice-cream parlour, Sweet Flamingo.

Where to buy

Between Waterloo Square and West Street you'll find the small old
town, full of Regency townhouses far, far cheaper than a few miles
east, though many need a good update. Plus the usual seasidey
Victorian streets. West towards Pagham, the Witterings and Selsey, the
private estates of Aldwick and Aldwick Bay, full of grand and less
grand 1920s and 30s homes. Also nice are the former villages almost
swallowed up by the town, like Flansham and North Bersted, often with
thatched cottages. Large detacheds and townhouses, £500,000-£1.5m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £275,000-£500,000. Semis,
£200,000-£500,000. Terraces and cottages, £185,000-£350,000. Flats,
£120,000-£375,000. Rentals: a one-bed flat, £550-£750pcm; a three-bed
house, £975-£1,500pcm.

Bargain of the week

Four-bedroom grade II-listed townhouse in the centre, £340,000, with
charlespeck.co.uk.

From the streets

Becky Smith
"Butlin's is good for daytrippers - a new pool opened in April. The
Lobster Pot in Felpham has great food, amazing ice-cream."

Peter Roland
"A good library and trains, although the service to London is slow."

Live in Bognor? Join the debate below

Do you live in Thurso? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 11 June.

