Let's move to Stirling: Edinburgh in miniature, with fewer stag
parties

Once a stronghold of Scotland's royalty, this historic town is a
mighty fine place to live

A view of the city of Stirling in Central Scotland

Stirling, with its "castle to end all castles, high on a crag".


What's going for it?

There's no getting around Stirling. Well, OK, pedants, these days you
can take the M9 or the Kincardine Bridge, or wiggle your way on the
A814 along Loch Long. But in times of yore, when Scotland was more
like Game Of Thrones' Westeros, most roads led through Stirling. This
is where Scotland's waist narrows to a few score miles, and is the
lowest bridging point on the River Forth. No wonder they built a
castle to end all castles, high on a crag, with a sheer, almost
impregnable western slope. No wonder this is where Scotland's royalty
held court from the 16th century. "He who holds Stirling holds
Scotland," went the saying. Of course, these days you can take said
M9, so Stirling has settled nicely into a comfortable later life as a
mighty fine place to live, with half Scotland's population within an
hour's drive. There are fewer battles here, and a lot less buckles to
be swashed but, on the upside, it's a gorgeous town, an Edinburgh in
miniature, only with fewer bagpipe buskers and stag parties from
Woking.


The case against

Perhaps a little sedate; but Glasgow's only up the road.


Well connected?

Trains: to Glasgow (30-40 mins), Edinburgh (50-60 mins) and Perth
(30-40 mins). Driving: right in the centre of things with the A9, M9
and M80 all about; 35 mins to central Glasgow, an hour to Edinburgh,
45 mins to Perth, 40 mins to the Trossachs or Loch Lomond.


Schools

Primaries: there are no current inspection reports for Allan's,
Raploch or Bannockburn, but Riverside is excellent or very good, and
Our Lady's RC, Bridge of Allan and St Mary's RC mostly very good, says
Education Scotland. Secondaries: no current reports for the city's St
Modan's RC High, Bannockburn High or Wallace High, alas.


Hang out at...

I tell you, it's all happening at the Tolbooth arts centre. I had a
lovely cuppa at Darnley coffee house.


Where to buy

The old town, or Top of the Town, is, as you'd expect, a jamboree of
medieval stepped gables and stone turrets, winding down from the
castle crag; pricey but gorg. The King's Park conservation area south
of Albert Place is a posh Victorian suburb of extremely fine (and
quite costly) stone Victorian detached houses, often enormous. Look,
too, south towards St Ninians, and north of the city by the
university, where you'll find some great homes in the small, attached
spa town of Bridge of Allan. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£400,000-£1.4m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £150,000-£400,000.
Semis, £100,000-£600,000. Terraces and cottages, £90,000-£220,000.
Flats, £60,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £400-£700pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £600-£1,400pcm.


Bargain of the week

Four-bedroom detached house, needs refurbishment, £140,000, with
allenandharris.co.uk.



From the streets

Steve Chinn
"The Burgh Coffee House on King Street, and the MacRobert arthouse
cinema on the university campus. Pet hate: the stalled riverside
quarter on the wrong side of the railways tracks: an urban
redevelopment scheme that could be anywhere."

Alistair Richardson
"Our Place (Murray Place) claims to serve the best homemade veg and
lentil soup in Scotland. Absolutely right. And La Ciociara (Friars
Street), an Italian shovelling out proper pizza and great house white
for silly money. And as it's family run, it's resolutely shut on
Sundays. And quite right too."


Do you live in Brecon, Powys? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 March.


Comments

Moved to Stirling three years ago and love it. Great place if you like
the outdoors, The Ochills are on your doorstep as well as the
Gargunnock and Fintry Hills. Trossachs national park is about half an
hour away, loads of lochs, glens and Munros within easy reach.

I went to university at Stirling, the university campus is stunning,
and available for use by locals and tourists (lots of local mums and
dads taking the kids to feed the ducks on the 'loch.' I loved living
there, and the majority of the architecture is beautiful (and being
surrounded by hills makes it even more so). But it isn't an easy life,
if you want a good job (unless you work for the university or HES) you
have to travel to Glasgow or Edinburgh

