Let's move to King's Lynn, Norfolk: it's beautiful - all cobbles, alleys and warehouses

If it wasn't in the remoter end of the Fens, it would be overrun with
tourists

King's Lynn, Norfolk

King's Lynn, Norfolk: "Geography favoured it hundreds of years ago."


What's going for it?

Amazing, the effect of geography. Were King's Lynn anywhere else in
the country but squelched into the remoter end of the Fens, it would
be overrun with tourists. They'd be there getting selfies next to some
18th-century townhouses or cutie-pie half-timbered cottages they'd
seen in the latest Sunday night costume drama. Bistros and artisan
coffee houses would be flush. Various branches of Edinburgh Woollen
Mills would have opened. But it is not. It is squelched into the
remoter end of the Fens. The wealth of the north Norfolk coast is
tantalisingly near, but not quite near enough. That relative
remoteness today (I mean, it's only just over an hour to Cambridge, so
it's hardly Siberia, is it?) has bred an independent spirit: there's
some great local culture behind those pedimented porticoes, and a fair
bit of money has been spent on sprucing up the place. Geography
favoured King's Lynn hundreds of years ago, before trade shifted to
the Atlantic. That's why it's so beautiful today, all cobbles, alleys
and warehouses. King's Lynn was once the biggest port in the country,
and its merchants flashed their cash on those 18th-century townhouses.
Maybe fortune will smile on it again some day.


The case against

The poor place has been scandalously knocked about in decades past, to
make room for car parks and dual carriageways, meaning that today it's
a slightly surreal mishmash of 18th-century alleys and retail parks.


Well connected?

Trains: to Cambridge (52 minutes) and London (one hour 50 minutes).
Driving: 30 minutes to the seaside at Hunstanton, 50 minutes to
Peterborough and the A1, 70 minutes to Norwich and 75 to Cambridge.


Schools

Primaries: while many are "good", Eastgate is "outstanding", Ofsted
says. No reports yet for North Wootton, Reffley and Gaywood.
Secondaries: Springwood High is "good". No report yet, either, for Fen
Rivers Academy.


Hang out at...

Market Bistro on Market Place is fabbo, as is Marriott's Warehouse.


Where to buy

The old town is a knockout. From the brick Georgian townhouses lining
London Road right up to the stunning King Street, you won't want for
pretty amazing period property from the 15th century onwards. Nice
nook of cottages, too, around Friar's Street. Good suburban detacheds
in Gaywood, on and off Gayton Road; and in South Wootton. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £200,000-£400,000. Semi-detacheds, £115,000-£300,000.
Terraces and cottages, £90,000-£250,000. Flats, £60,000-£250,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £380-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£550-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week

It's £750,000, yes, but look at what you get for that: a remarkable
eight-bedroomed Victorian villa; with sowerbys.com.


From the streets

Nick Cooper
"The lovely Norfolk coast is only 12 miles away. House prices are very
reasonable, despite London being less than two hours away by train on
the Fenland line."

Ivor Rowlands
"It has the only remaining theatre in the world that can claim
Shakespeare performed there - St George's Guildhall."


Live in King's Lynn? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Clitheroe and the Ribble Valley? Do you have a
favourite haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com
by Tuesday 15 January.

