Let's move to Dumfries, Dumfries & Galloway: could anywhere be more
Scottish?

It's full of pinnacles, crow-stepped gables and baronial turrets as if
Disney's imagineers had sketched it themselves

The old Devorgilla Bridge over the River Nith, Dumfries

'Plenty of historic properties': the old Devorgilla Bridge over the
River Nith, Dumfries.


What's going for it? 

In the - almost - words of Chandler from Friends: "Could anywhere be
more Scottish?" Don't @ me. Don't write in. Here's my pitch, hear me
out. Dumfries was the home of Robert Burns. Back of the net. You can
pay your respects at his statue opposite Nationwide Building Society,
at his little sandstone house, or in person at his mausoleum in St
Michael's churchyard. Second: its warm red stone streets are
chock-full of pinnacles, crow-stepped gables and baronial turrets, as
if Disney's imagineers had sketched it themselves. Third: in the late
13th century William Wallace and the townsfolk saw off the invading
English here. Fourth: soon after, Robert the Bruce began his campaign
for independence in Dumfries (and, at Bannockburn, won). Fifth: the
remarkable, romantic hinterland - the red kites and pine forests of
the Galloway hills, the ruined castles and abbeys of the Nith estuary,
the white sands of the Solway coast - could turn Alf Garnett
Hibernian. I could go on.


The case against 

A tad off the beaten track these days.


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to Carlisle and the west coast mainline, every two
hours to Glasgow (1hr 45 mins). Driving: 25 mins to Lockerbie and the
M74, 30 mins to the beaches at Mersehead Sands, 50 mins to Carlisle.


Schools 

Primaries: almost all have no current reports, says Education
Scotland, but Loreburn is "satisfactory", while St Michael's is "very
good" or "excellent". Secondaries: no current reports, either for
Dumfries High, Dumfries Academy, St Joseph's (Catholic) or North West
Community.


Hang out at... 

I had a lovely welcome at the Globe Inn and the Cavens Arms. (It
wasn't a pub crawl, honest.)


Where to buy 

The centre of town has plenty of historic properties - but not so many
to become a museum - particularly around Castle and George Streets and
the ruddy Victorians around Lovers Walk. Across the river in
Maxwelltown, Laurieknowe and the surroundings have a really beautiful
stretch of historic properties. Good Victorians off St Mary's Street,
Cardoness Street and around. Look to Summerhill and Lochside for
edge-of-town suburbans etc. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£200,000-£500,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£150,000-£200,000. Semis, £80,000-£250,000. Terraces and cottages,
£70,000-£150,000. Flats, £50,000-£140,000. Rentals: a two-bedroom
flat, £450-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house, £550-£700pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Five-bedroom Victorian townhouse in the centre, overlooking the River
Nith, priced to sell at £70,000 with springbok properties.co.uk.


From the streets

Maureen Smyth 
"A vibrant open-water swimming community, with regular swims at Loch
Etrick, Loch Ken and on the coast at Mossyard."

Murray Sutherland 
"The 7stanes mountain bike trails in Mabie forest."

Gillian Brydson 
"The Stove Network for lunch and live music."


Live in Dumfries? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Inverness? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 22 October.

