Let's move to Clitheroe, Lancashire: no-nonsense and gorgeous

Lush green countryside, savage moorland, and then there's the Ribble Valley's food


Clitheroe, Lancashire

"Clitheroe is a jolly place of bunting and butchers."


What's going for it?

The Ribble Valley is my and our very own Grace Dent's secret. OK, ours
and the few thousands who live there. She comes for the valley's
gastropubs ("God's own") all flagstones, stoves, pies and "genuinely
warm service". I come for those (who doesn't like a pie?) but also the
valley's no-nonsense towns, carved from gruff stone, and My Perfect
Countryside, pinched between Pendle Hill and the Forest of Bowland,
splicing lush green river banks of fat cows and the more savage kind
of moorland. All those plus a splodge of nostalgia.

This neck of the woods is where my mum was from. Clitheroe, the
capital, is a jolly place of bunting and butchers, a neat little
Norman castle and stone terraces with thick black or white lintels and
architraves as if drawn on by a mammoth marker pen. And did we mention
the food? Sausages, folks, and lots of them. An inevitable food
festival, of course, and a market so magnificent it's a national
treasure. Just don't call the Ribble Valley a foodie destination or
you'll get a chunk of millstone grit chucked your way.


The case against

Nothing. Not one little thing.


Well connected?

Trains: hourly, sometimes half-hourly from Clitheroe to Blackburn (22
minutes), Bolton (52 minutes) and Manchester (75 minutes); stops at
Whalley and Langho. Driving: 40 minutes to Preston, a shade fewer to
the M6; 30 minutes to Blackburn, an hour to the coast at Blackpool and
the big city of Manchester.


Schools

Primaries: almost all of the valley's schools are "good", says Ofsted,
with Langho & Billington St Leonard's CofE, Barrow, Edisford
(Clitheroe), Clitheroe Pendle, Waddington & West Bradford CofE, St
Joseph's RC, Chatburn CofE and Grimsargh St Michael's CofE all
"outstanding". Secondaries: Ribblesdale High (Clitheroe) is "good",
with Clitheroe Royal Grammar, St Augustine's RC High Billington and
Bowland High (Sawley) "outstanding".


Hang out at...

Take your pick. Ms Dent raved about the Assheton Arms. Others drool
over Breda Murphy in Whalley, The Freemasons, Wiswell and Northcote
Manor, Langho. Feel a food crawl coming on.


Where to buy

Clitheroe itself is a delicious hilltop town of foursquare stone
terraces and townhouses, many Georgian and early Victorian. Ribchester
is much smaller, but still a dish. Whalley, too. Plenty of farms and
land, with a lot of barns and cottages. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £400,000-£2.5m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£200,000-£400,000. Semis, £130,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages,
£90,000-£325,000. Flats, £85,000-£300,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £400-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house, £550-£1,250pcm.


Bargain of the week

Sweet, two-bed Victorian stone cottage in Clitheroe, £110,000, with
keenans-estateagents.co.uk.


From the streets

Jan Holden
"A fab place to live - as long as you never want to drive anywhere.
Takes bloody ages."

Lisa Francis
"The only downside is that it's the safest seat in the country and our
MP knows it."

Heather Ramsay
"Do not miss Cowmans sausage shop on Castle street."

Patrick Troughton
"Byrne's wine merchants is a treasure trove."


Live in Clitheroe or the Ribble Valley? Join the debate below

Do you live in Brentford, west London? Do you have a favourite haunt
or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 12
February.
