Let's move to: Bermondsey, south-east London: a chaotic collage of its eventful past

Eighty years of change have left a cityscape that looks as if it has
been put together by a vigorous game of consequences

Bermondsey, south-east London

Bermondsey, south-east London: you will never be bored here.

What's going for it?

Bermondsey has been so pummelled by fortune that it looks as if it has
been put together by a vigorous, acid-fuelled game of consequences.
The past 80 years, in particular, have been eventful. The blitz,
postwar rebuilding, deindustrialisation, the death of the docks and
gentrification have left a cityscape that is collaged to a degree
perhaps unequalled in this most chaotic of cities. Take a walk from
its ancient heart, the old high street Bermondsey Street, past the
Victorian parades of Tower Bridge Road and along Grange Walk, which
once abutted Bermondsey's abbey and 18th-century spa, and the game
begins: Georgian terraces opposite 80s Brookside vernacular houses,
next to 30s council flats, beside Victorian cockney terraces, facing
00s luxury apartment complexes, round the corner from 19th-century
philanthropic housing. Take a right and you hit intense foodies
hunting for single-estate hazelnuts at Spa Terminus food market, then
repeat, repeat, repeat until you hit Peckham. On the plus side, you
are never bored...

The case against

It is hard to know whether this fragmentary neighbourhood comes
together or remains a collage of atomised bits, but that is
contemporary London for you. Lots of property speculation along the
potential route of the Bakerloo line extension.

Well connected?

Trains: Bermondsey station is on the tube's Jubilee line; South
Bermondsey rail station has four to six an hour to London Bridge (5
mins), Peckham (5 mins) and to various south-east London spots. Plans
are afoot to extend the Bakerloo line down the Old Kent Road to
Lewisham.

Schools

Primaries: Tower Bridge, St James' CofE, Southwark Park and Grange are
all "good", Ofsted says, with St Joseph's RC, Riverside, Boutcher
CofE, Phoenix, Galleywall and Ilderton "outstanding"; John Keats is
yet to be inspected. Secondaries: Compass and City of London
(Southwark) are "good", with St Michael's RC and Harris "outstanding".

Hang out at...

You won't want for top-notch-but-top-dollar treats on Bermondsey
Street and Maltby Street; next-level foodies go to Spa Terminus. The
real action, though, is in the Nigerian/Greek/Colombian/YouNameIt
spots on Old Kent Road.

Where to buy

Take your pick: the "HOW MUCH?" old heart of Bermondsey Street and
warehouse apartments of Shad Thames and the riverfront; the more
appealing, slightly more affordable centre around Bermondsey Spa
Gardens; the more normal habitat of Asda and B&Q in South Bermondsey
and the Old Kent Road. Townhouses, £750,000-£1.5m. Terraces and
cottages, £475,000-£750,000. Flats: three bedrooms, £325,000-£4m; two
bedrooms, £300,000-£1.75m; one bedroom, £250,000-£1m for the poshest
riversides. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £1,100-£3,500pcm; a
three-bedroom flat, £1,500-£6,000pcm.

Bargain of the week

Two-bed postwar flat, needs decoration, £275,000, with
acorngroup.co.uk.

From the streets:

John Parfett
"The market on Maltby Street; Machine bike shop and cafe on Tower
Bridge Road; lovely old pubs on the river east of Tower Bridge.
Downside: the traffic on Tower Bridge Road is getting worse."

Jess Brown
"One of the last M Manze pie and mash shops - there are still
queues.'"

Live in Bermondsey? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ventnor? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by 6 August.

