Let's move to Walton-on-the-Naze, Essex: it has seen off the sea for centuries

The waves, I should add, do not need encouragement. The soft marshy
sludge and crumbly fudge of the land is disappearing

Walton-on-the-Naze, Essex: 'It's the unpretentious twin to hoity Frinton next door.'


What's going for it?

The Naze, since you're asking, is the promontory or "ness" of land,
colonised by seals and barely above sea level, curled come-hither into
the North Sea like a finger beckoning the waves. The waves, I should
add, do not need encouragement. The soft marshy sludge and crumbly
fudge of the land round here is fast disappearing, with bungalows
lined up like King Canutes before the sea with nought but a strip of
green, promenade shelters and beach huts as the first line of defence.
Not that the town itself seems overly concerned, yet, and on the plus
side, you can find fantastic fossils fallen from the cliffs. It's a
lovely, jovial spot, with the air of a seafaring community that has
seen off the sea for centuries. It's the unpretentious twin to hoity
Frinton next door, all bric-a-brac shops, caffs and purveyors of
buckets and spades, oddities like the Naze Tower, glossed over with a
becoming 1950s sheen, as if Telstar were still high in the hit parade,
and the climate emergency was a worry decades into the future.


The case against 

The original town of Walton is miles out at sea. You have been warned.


Well connected? 

Trains: hourly to Colchester (40 mins), from whence the rest of the
galaxy, or at least the mainline to London, Ipswich and Norwich.
Driving: 40 mins to Colchester, 30 mins to the A12, 20 mins to
Clacton.


Schools 

Primaries: Walton-on-the-Naze and Frinton-on-Sea are both "good", says
Ofsted. Secondaries: Tendring Technology College is "good".



Hang out at...

Hipkins tea room, nursing a steaming cuppa, gazing wistfully over the
beach huts. Had a lovely fry-up in the Round Table family restaurant.


Where to buy 

The streetscape is all very random, with 20s semis beside 19th-century
fishermen's terraces, bungalows or weatherboarded cottages
cheek-by-jowl with Regency townhouses and grand modern villas. The
small old town between the High Street, the Parade and the sea front
is densely full of older properties. The actual Naze itself is poshest
around Hall Lane, Cliff Parade and Old Hall Lane for detacheds and
bungalows and the odd stretch of Victorian terraces, and towards town,
a handsome strip of Regency townhouses at East Terrace. Or west out of
town on Kirby Road and Walton Road. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£400,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£400,000. Semis, £210,000-£350,000. Terraces and
cottages, £150,000-£300,000. Flats, £115,000-£250,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £450-£550pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£850-£1,150pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Five-bedroom Victorian townhouse in the old heart, with sea views;
could do with an update. £250,000, with bairstoweves.co.uk.


From the streets

Anna de Pass 
"You can't get artisan bread or a proper coffee. But that is its charm."

Thea Roper 
"Amazing beaches; you may even see a seal or two."



Live in Walton-on-the Naze? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Shaftsbury? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5 November.


Comments

The Naze itself is a wonderful nature reserve, especially good for
butterflies. There's a new visitor centre, a cafe and art gallery in
the tower, great wildlife, and lots of fossils on the beach. The salt
marshes and estuary are one of the places that inspired Ransome's
Swallows and Amazons. Great place for nature and families.

I like Walton, unlike many towns in the south east it is completely
unpretentious, the walk around the naze is wonderful on a fine day and
it is hard to believe you are just 60 miles from London. For those who
say the town is inward looking and distrustful of outsiders I have
never noticed that in my visits to the region, the people are friendly
and up for a chat which is a rare thing to find in most parts of the
south east.

