Let's move to Winchester: where all is right with the world

The streets are lined with the homes of your dreams... just don't
expect anything edgy

Winchester, Hampshire: "Never a dull moment."

Winchester, Hampshire: "Never a dull moment."


What's going for it?

I sense that Winchester has never fallen on particularly hard times - 
perhaps when the Romans left? These days, though, the town, lush and
leafy in its hollow at the start (or end) of the South Downs,
regularly cavorts in, if not tops, "10 most
prosperous/gorgeous/popular/la-di-da places to live" league tables. It
is lovely. Really lovely. The streets are lined with the homes of your
dreams: all periods are represented from King Arthur (almost) to Grand
Designs, spick and span and freshly painted, gardens fit-for-a-House
Beautiful photoshoot. History pours from every stone, even fake
history - from King Arthur's round table (yeah, right) to the diver
who stopped its immense cathedral from sinking into the mud. Never a
dull moment in Winchester. The river Itchen, where John Keats once
took afternoon strolls, tinkles away contentedly in its water meadows
at the bottom of the hill. In Winchester, all is right with the world.


The case against...

And that might be the problem. I might go mad here, it's such a bubble
of prosperity. The wonderful art school aside, there's not much edge
to the place. And, inevitably, it is very expensive - almost London
prices.


Well connected?

Very. Trains: to London Waterloo (just over an hour), through
Basingstoke; to Southampton (15-25 mins) via Southampton Airport.
Driving: you're right on the M3, so you can make the M25 in an hour
and Southampton and Portsmouth in 30 mins, 40 mins to the New Forest
and 50 mins to Bournemouth.


Schools

Primaries: Harestock, Weeke, The Westgate, Western CofE, Oliver's
Battery, All Saints CofE and Winnall are all "good", says Ofsted, with
St Peter's Catholic, St Faith's CofE and St Bede CofE "outstanding".
Secondaries: Henry Beaufort and The Westgate are "good", with King's
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

I can recommend the coffee and cakes at Coffee Lab. High praise,
food-wise, for The Black Rat and Chesil Rectory nearby.


Where to buy

Few cities outside London have such a great mass of historic
properties. The city has a large centre, on a grid plan laid out by
the Saxons, packed with buildings of all ages. It then follows the
river south to St Cross, Christchurch Road and all. Other great areas?
Stanmore; around Sleepers Hill; Weeke, close to the station; west to
Fulflood is nice, too - check out Chilbolton Avenue. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £650,000-£3m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£350,000-£650,000. Semis, £300,000-£1.3m. Terraces and cottages,
£250,000-£800,000. Flats, £160,000-£1.2m. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat,
£675-£1,200pcm; a three-bedroom house, £1,000-£2,000pcm.

Bargain of the week

You'll be lucky. This three-bedroom postwar semi, with potential to
extend, is as good as you'll get, £310,000 with dybles.com.


From the streets

James Douglass
"The Willow Tree is a hidden gem of a pub - the River Itchen passes
both sides of the little garden. A lack of diversity."

Amanda Taylor
"Lovely coffee at Flat Whites. Winchester has lost a lot of the
independent stores, which is a shame. The delay in developing the
Silver Hill area means some of the city looks scruffy."


Live in Winchester? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ely, Cambridgeshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 26 March.


Comments

It won't be if we 'ALL' move there.

Sometimes feels as if everyone has.

I don't think 'everyone' has. It's very white to the point where it
was a weekly occurrence for strangers to walk up to me and say, "what
are you?". It's a very insular and snobby town. It's also very dull
for older teenagers who are often desperate to escape.

"Other great areas? Stanmore; Weeke"

Errr, great?

Quite.

Bloody hell - Stanmore & Weeke?! Has this journalist ever been to
Winchester?

