Let's move to Ripon, North Yorkshire: where all seems right in the world

There's a flawless cityscape, damn fine tearooms and even an ancient hornblower

Ripon: "An independent city of ancient history and modern twists."

Ripon: "An independent city of ancient history and modern twists."



What's going for it?

One can snigger at local customs - you know, the Ye Olde Knee-Painting
Ceremony of Nuneaton, that kind of thing. But I think there's
something just fabulous about Ripon's ancient hornblower, who blows
his horn (stop sniggering at the back) at the four corners of the
obelisk in the Market Square, every night at 9pm. First of all,
someone still bothers to blow a horn four times every night, even when
it's throwing it down, even when there's something good on the telly.
Second, I do love a custom that takes us back to a distant past, when
much of the country was ruled by Vikings and Danes. Alfred the Great
is said to have given the horn to the people of Ripon to be blown for
reassurance that no pesky Vikings were lurking, poised to pillage.
These days the horn has its own website, YouTube videos and
everything. It says much about this handsome, independent city of
ancient history, modern twists, a flawless cityscape and damn fine
tearooms. All seems right in the world here under the bunting on
Kirkgate, which, considering all is very much not right in the world,
is quite an achievement. One thing's for sure: when the hornblower
stops blowing, the end is nigh.


The case against

Some might find it a bit dull. There's local culture aplenty, but not
enough to keep the cool cats among you satisfied. Where do you think
this is, Halifax?


Well connected?

Trains: no, the nearest is a 20-minute drive away at Thirsk or
Knaresborough. Driving: the A1(M) is a five-minute drive away,
Harrogate 30 mins, York 45 and Leeds 50. You are right on the edge of
the glorious Yorkshire Dales national park. Buses to Harrogate and
Leeds several times an hour.


Schools

Primaries: Moorside Junior, Ripon Cathedral CofE, Holy Trinity CofE
Junior and Sharow CofE are all "good", Ofsted says, with St Wilfrid's
Catholic "outstanding". Outwood has no report yet. Secondaries:
Outwood and Ripon Grammar are both "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Old Deanery is the local star, and you won't want for nice pubs
and smashing tearooms. But the real culinary hotspots are not far
away, in Harrogate and the Dales.


Where to buy

There's a lovely old, bricky centre, of course, up on the hill, with a
fine line in Georgian townhouses and Victorian terraces aplenty.
Explore. Some nice (posh) homes, too, on the banks of the rivers. Fine
period and modern suburbans south, off and between Harrogate and
Knaresborough Roads. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£450,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£220,000-£400,000. Semis, £200,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages,
£125,000-£320,000. Flats, £70,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £400-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house, £750-£950pcm.


Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom Victorian terrace in the centre, at the new price of
£146,950, with davislund.co.uk.


From the streets

Dave Jelley
"For 25 years we had no cinema - now we have a Curzon with four rows
of seats, brilliant. Fountains Abbey - one of the country's most
scenic Park Runs."

Kathryn Stewart
"The One Eyed Rat, with its superb hidden beer garden."

Jonathan Thomas
"An inordinate number of hairdressers and no major high-street
retailer."



Live in Ripon? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Hertford? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 30 April.



Comments

Is there a Waitrose?

Nearest is in Harrogate, 10 miles away.

There's a Booths, it's better!

What about all the sink holes in Ripon?

See above.
