Let's move to Kendal, Cumbria: a proper town in permanent festival
mode

You have the luxury of two of the most magnificent national parks -
the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales - at the edge of town

Kendal: the lush green fields of the countryside are never far from sight.

Kendal: the lush green fields of the countryside are never far from sight.

What's going for it?

Auld Grey Town, they call it, and under a heavy blanket of cloud and
drizzle rolled in from the fells, it sure is, though the cheerier
among you may notice the light sparkle in the stones of its limestone
streets, and the fact that the steeply sloping sides of the town mean
the lush green fields of the countryside are never far from sight.
(You have the luxury of not one but two of the most magnificent
national parks - the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales - at the edge
of town.) What Kendal lacks in colour, though, it makes up for with
joie de vivre, seemingly permanently in festival mode. The tweeness
that bedevils much of the Lake District is absent. Instead, it's a
proper Cumbrian (though, correctly, Westmorland-ian) place, where they
still make snuff and mint cake, and sheep-shearers hunker down in the
pubs. Cultural behemoths Abbot Hall and Brewery Arts Centre have a
roster of great lineups. But there's something in the water, too. This
wee town gave birth to Wild Beasts and British Sea Power, Postman Pat,
and, beside that sheep-shearer in the pub there's probably a painter,
a poet or a grime-jazz fusionist nursing a pint.

The case against

The traffic: it seems as if the whole town is one gigantic gyratory
system. The rain: love it, or leave town.

Well connected?

Very. Trains: Kendal is on a branch line to Windermere (17 mins,
hourly); the west coast mainline is just outside at Oxenholme (5 mins,
hourly), from which Carlisle is about 40 mins, Lancaster 13-19 mins,
and Preston 33 mins. Driving: you're right on the M6, so Lancaster is
30 mins, Preston 50; 25 mins to Windermere and the heart of the Lakes,
an hour to Carlisle.

Schools

Primaries: Stramongate, Castlepark, Ghyllside, Heron Hill, Dean Gibson
Catholic and Vicarage Park CofE are all "good", Ofsted says.
Secondaries: Kirkbie Kendal is "good".


Hang out at...

Red Door Kitchen, the Grainstore at Brewery Arts Centre or, yes, they
have smashed avocado here, at Brew Brothers. Me? I'll be at The Punch
Bowl in Crosthwaite 15 mins out of town.

Where to buy

The centre has steep streets of fine, grey limestone property, from
18th century to early Edwardian, especially. Loaded up with
conservation areas: gawp on Beast Banks and Gillinggate and down their
ginnels and yards. The roads out of town have fine Victorian homes.
West Brigsteer Road, backing on to the national park, and Burneside
Road along the river Kent, are most prized. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £400,000-£1.25m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£240,000-£400,000. Semis, £170,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages,
£110,000-£385,000. Flats, £85,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £375-£575pcm; a three-bedroom house, £700-£800pcm.

Bargain of the week

Four-bed farmhouse with outbuildings and land. Needs modernisation,
but loads of potential; £599,950, with rturner.co.uk.

From the streets

Nick Greenall
"The meandering alleyways, or ginnels, up on Fell Side that resemble a
tumbling Tuscan hillside village."

Richard Ashcroft
"Plenty of places to eat, or see a band. Couple this with the
closeness to Lakes national park and the Dales and you're living the
dream."

Live in Kendal? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Whitley Bay? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 18 June

Comments

I live in Kendal. It's a pleasant place to make your home if you are
retired or have young children and like the lake district, it's
weather and all it has to offer. Quality of life is good and crime
rates are low with many people having taken the decision to live here
and commute to Preston, Manchester and Liverpool. Cost of living is
reasonably low too although house prices are high for local wages. To
update you on the flood defences.

To look at or live in? I've lived in both. Keswick is certainly a
livelier place, but it's full of tourists. Kendal lacks the tourists,
so less money is being spent in the local economy.

Keswick is good for access to the (northern) fells, Kendal has the M6
for commuting to work in Lancaster and beyond.

I wouldn't say one is nicer to live in than the other.

