Let's move to Anglesey/Ynys Môn, Wales: 'A world apart'

This thriving crucible for contemporary Welshness offers fantastic
views, sandy coves and relative isolation


Menai bridge crossing Menai Straits to Anglesey from the mainland in
Wales, UK, designed by Thomas Telford

Ynys Môn/Anglesey, Wales: "Second-homers come in search of its views."


What's going for it?

Ynys Môn likes to keep its distance, as well it might. People have
long come to these shores to take things. The Romans slogged all the
way from the Med, sniffing out Anglesey's raw materials. Nowadays,
second-homers come in search of its views, sandy coves and relative
isolation. Thomas Telford's beautiful Menai suspension bridge may have
long leapt over the tricky waters of the strait, and its neighbour,
the Britannia Bridge, carries mainline trains chuffing off to the
ferries at Holyhead; but the island still has a sense of a world
apart. Its distance has kept even those savage incomers, grey
squirrels, at bay. Ynys Môn has thriving colonies of red squirrels,
and so many puffins it's named an island after them. The greatest
survivor, though? Welsh culture. Today, about 70% of islanders speak
Welsh and make sure the island is a thriving crucible of contemporary
Welshness.


The case against

If you are going to move here, move here; don't pillage. Wylfa nuclear
power plant was proposed for the north, but has just been scrapped.
Following the closure of its aluminium smelting industry a decade ago,
the local economy needs some good news.


Well connected?

Trains: the line from Holyhead to Bangor on the mainland and beyond
passes to the south of the island, with several stops; it's about 30
mins to Bangor from Valley. Driving: the A5 is the mainline; the
airport has planes to Cardiff twice daily; Holyhead, on neighbouring
Holy Island, takes you to Ireland.


Schools

Primaries: many, mostly "good", says Estyn, with Rhosybol "excellent".
Secondaries: David Hughes, Uwchradd Bodedern and Syr Thomas Jones are
largely "good".


Hang out at...

There's rather a food renaissance on the island, with fascinating
restaurants such as Freckled Angel and Sosban & The Old Butcher's in
Menai Bridge, The Loft in Beaumaris, and the intriguing Marram Grass
in Newborough.


Where to buy

Heaps of historic, often unusual properties, from yet-to-be-converted
stone barns to mansions. Beaumaris is your straight-up, delish
Victorian seaside resort, pastel-painted townhouses, pier and all.
People pass through the town of Menai Bridge, but it has some lovely
wiggly lanes of old buildings down by the water. Amlwch up in the
north is remote, but has charm. The real star, though, is the
beautiful coastline, beachy bays such as Red Wharf, and, especially,
the wonderful Menai Strait, with its views to north Wales. North and
east quieter. More affordable in the interior. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £350,000-£2m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£150,000-£350,000. Semis, £100,000-£400,000. Terraces and cottages,
£70,000-£325,000. Flats, £125,000-£550,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £350-£450pcm; a three-bedroom house, £450-£900pcm.


Bargain of the week

A three-bed detached house, with views of Snowdonia, in Llanddona,
£219,000, with tppuk.com.


From the streets

Jo Tierney
"Hooton's Homegrown cafe and farm shop. Great beaches."

Nigel Peacock
"Menai Bridge is a thriving university town."

Wendy Williams
"Pet hate: often left off the map of the UK! Lack of employment, and
most people supported Brexit."


Live in Anglesey/Ynys Môn? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Stirling, Scotland? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 5
February.


Comments

We moved here from the West Midlands some 8 years ago in our mid-50s
and, despite the fact that we quickly abandoned our plans to learn
Welsh (damn, it's difficult!), we have never encountered the slightest
trace of resentment from the local people. As for the Brexit vote, I
suspect that was swayed by the towns of Holyhead and Llangefni, and in
the most recent poll the Leavers got a good kicking. 


I think it takes a certain type of person to live there. I grew up
there, and lived between there and Bangor into my mid-20s but couldn't
wait to leave. I remember standing on the top of Holyhead Mountain and
in three directions there's sea, and the fourth is Snowdonia and it
felt like a wall and everything exciting happening in the world was on
the other side of that wall. 

