Bedford: nicer than you might think - and with hidden depths

So perfect that the "daughter of God" bought a home in one of the
redbrick terraces

Bedford town bridge

Bedford: "That lovely waterfront."


What's going for it?

You might have thought of Bedford, if you'd thought of Bedford at all,
as a perfectly respectable place. Good schools. Lovely parks. Smashing
Victorian redbrick houses. Great train links. Surprisingly
cosmopolitan (one of the most ethnically diverse towns in the
country). Ooh, the Cecil Higgins Gallery, with its Edward Bawdens.
That lovely waterfront. Great place to bring up kids. But Mabel
Barltrop had other ideas. In 1919 she declared herself "daughter of
God", as you do, and with her pals in the Community of the Holy Ghost
bought one of those redbrick terraces as a home for Christ when he
materialised, perhaps outside Marks & Spencer. Mabel waited, and she
waited. And waited. You can visit the museum of Mabel's Panacea
Society, in the terraces cupped round what they thought was the true
location of the Garden of Eden. Bedford's like that. Hidden depths. I
haven't even mentioned John Bunyan and all his visions.


The case against

The town centre is suffering rather from high-street fatigue. It could
do with a shot of energy.


Well connected?

Trains: five or six an hour to London St Pancras (40-60 minutes) via
Luton (plus airport) 15-23 minutes, and also via Thameslink on through
London and the City. One or two an hour to Wellingborough (11-42
minutes) and then less frequently to Kettering. Driving: 15 minutes to
the A1 and the M1; 30 minutes to Milton Keynes, 40 to Luton, 50 to
Cambridge. Plans are afoot to open the "Varsity line" through Bedford,
connecting Oxford and Cambridge; plus a new expressway road.


Schools

Primaries: among many rated "good" by Ofsted, Castle Newnham, Priory,
the Hills and St John Rigby Catholic are "outstanding". Secondaries:
Mark Rutherford, Castle Newnham, Goldington , Biddenham, Grange,
Daubeney, Kempston Challenger are "good", St Thomas More Catholic is
"outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Embankment is an excellent pub, right on the promenade along the
Ouse.


Where to buy

Bedford has an extremely good line in Victorian houses and nice
neighbourhoods. The Castle Road area, with its mix of 19th-century
terraces and semis and its good local shops, is especially nice. Also
the Poets area. But around Bedford Park and Park Avenue has the
largest and more expensive Victorian homes. Putnoe Lane is Bedford's
Beverley Hills. Vast swathes of modern suburbs. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £450,000-£1m. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£240,000-£450,000. Semis, £200,000-£580,000. Terraces and cottages,
£170,000-£420,000. Flats, £90,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £550-£800pcm; a three-bedroom house, £850-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week

Two-bedroom flat in a Victorian townhouse in the Poets area; needs an
update, £115,000, with sold.co.uk.


From the streets

Carol Scott
"Try the cosmopolitan Castle Quarter of glorious houses and selection
of shops."

Dave Newman
"Esquires is a brilliantly run live music venue."


Live in Bedford? Join the debate below

Do you live in Winchester? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 19 February.

