Let's move to Cromer, Norfolk: a very 1902 kind of place

The crab, the pier, the fishermen's cottages... but it's a long way from anywhere but Norfolk

Cromer, Norfolk

Cromer, Norfolk: Arthur Conan Doyle was awfully keen on the place.


What's going for it?

Cromer is a very 1902 kind of place. One half expects to see a
non-ironic mutton-chop or a waxed moustache in the queue at Morrisons,
or Arthur Conan Doyle (awfully keen on Cromer) filling up his Prius at
the petrol station. By the late 19th century, Cromer and its
neighbours Overstrand and East Runton were hot, hot, hot, baby.
Overstrand was called "village of millionaires", and the landscape
hereabouts is to this day dotted with large piles done out in the
style of the day - (pleasantly) watered-down arts and crafts.

Last time I came, maybe a decade ago, the place was, shall we say, a
little faded from its heyday. It's certainly got the Pledge out since.
The municipal gardens sparkle. The streets busy themselves with
independent shops. It's not without a bit of shabbiness, but all that
was once great about Cromer remains: the crabs (obvs); the tower of St
Peter and St Paul; the boarding houses clinging to the cliffs; those
sweet lanes of fishermen's houses; and the fin-de-siècle pier, oh, the
pier, the most end-of-the-pier pier in the country, at the extremity
of Norfolk, with nothing but fishing boats, nor'easterlies and herring
between the stage of its Pavilion theatre and Norway.


The case against...

It's a long way from anywhere but Norfolk. Coastal erosion is a
problem in this neck of the woods.


Well connected?

Trains: hourly to Norwich (43 to 51 minutes), to change for the rest
of the universe. Driving: 45 minutes to Norwich, 70 to King's Lynn.
The nearest motorways are two hours away.


Schools

Primaries: Cromer Junior, The Belfry (Overstrand) and Suffield Park
Infant and Nursery are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries: Cromer
Academy is "good".


Hang out at...

The queue at Davies fish shop. Or slurping seafood ramen at Upstairs
at No 1. The magical Gunton Arms is just outside at Thorpe Market.


Where to buy

The town is full of smashing homes: a nice line in traditional Norfolk
flinty pantiled cottages and townhouses, plus late-19th-century arts
and craftsy places. There are nice fishermen's cottages by the cliffs.
Explore the compact centre (which has some good, typical seaside
Victorians), or head towards Overstrand, via Overstrand Road, for
chunky semis and detacheds. Large detacheds and townhouses,
£400,000-£650,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£250,000-£400,000. Semis, £250,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages,
£175,000-£350,000. Flats, £70,000-£300,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £425-£525pcm; a three-bedroom house, £900-£1,000pcm.


Bargain of the week

Lovely, very roomy, four-bedroom Victorian terrace, £275,000, with
abbotts.co.uk.


From the streets

Gregory Hayman
"Great beach, terrific cliff views, and it's on the trainline from
Norwich - London is three hours away. Home to Salt Publishing."

Jane Parsons
"The community-run cafe in North Lodge Park, and the (Danish)
family-run Cafe Dane."


Live in Cromer? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Belper, Derbyshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 26
February.
