Sherborne, Dorset: packed with stories of its ancient past

With its glorious abbey and historic architecture this former Saxon
capital could even be a little too perfect

Sherborne, Dorset
"These days Sherborne's a quieter affair."


What's going for it?

Sherborne may be small, but what it lacks in girth it makes up for in
history. This place is spilling over with stories. Back in 800 or so
it was A Big Deal, a megalopolis of Saxon Wessex, with a cathedral and
everything (in 1075 the cathedral was demoted to an abbey - still
there, still luscious). This was the front line in the unification of
England, holding back the invading Danes from the east. Alfred the
Great's brothers are buried in the Abbey. And we haven't even got to
the second millennium yet. (Don't get me going on Sir Walter Raleigh's
two castles. One is never enough, I find.) These days Sherborne's a
quieter affair, up at the top of Dorset, a little off the beaten track
now that the A303 to the north saps the traffic from the A30. It's
quite content, though, a prosperous place where Fired Earth does a
roaring trade. It has its past for company, materialised in its
glorious, ochre architecture. When old age looks this good, who's want
youth?


The case against...

A little dull. A little perfect. One can have enough shops selling
beige country casuals.


Well connected?

Trains: hourly to Exeter (1hr 11mins) via Yeovil (7 mins), and to
Gillingham (15 mins) and Salisbury (45 mins). Driving: the A303 is 10
minutes to the north; 15 mins to Yeovil, 50 mins to the M5, just under
an hour to the coast.


Schools

Primaries: Sherborne and Sherborne Abbey CofE are both "good", says
Ofsted. Secondaries: The Gryphon is "good". There's also the
independent Sherborne School (where Alfred the Great is rumoured to
have learned his times tables) and Sherborne Girls.


Hang out at...

Nice old (of course) pubs such as The George or the Digby Tap.
Oliver's for coffee (or Horlicks!). The Plume of Feathers for bites
and cocktails.


Where to buy

An endless parade of perfect homes, from 15th-century via loads of
Georgians. The centre is a delight. Wander in awe from Long Street and
Newland to the Abbey. A nice line in 18th-century cottages. Good
Victorians on King's Road or The Avenue. Poshest suburbans around
Bradford Road. Large detacheds and townhouses, £600,000-£1.5m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £315,000-£600,000. Semis,
£175,000-£375,000. Terraces and cottages, £160,000-£400,000. Flats,
£100,000-£300,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £450-£550pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £700-£850pcm.


Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom semi, needs refurbishment, £160,000, with
connells.co.uk.


From the streets

Dave Oxford
"New independent brewery, BrewedBoy; Sherborne Indies, shops fighting
to keep our town vibrant; and gallery, cinema and cafe, the Paddock
Project, due to open in 2021."

Chris Bird
"Black Shed Flowers is a brilliant family-run flower farm."


Live in Sherborne? Join the debate below

Do you live in Cromer? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate? If
so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 29 January.


Comments

Also, acts as a palate cleanser if you accidentally stop off in Yeovil
*shudder*

Don't diss Yeovil. Like any town it has good and bad areas and there
are a few low lives. But generally shopping facilities are good,
Hendford (the local High Street) has a good variety of shops. People
are generally pleasant and a better natured football ground is hard to
find.

Have to agree. Lived in Yeovil for a year back in the early 1990's and
had a great time. Right about the atmosphere at the footy as well.

Lovely place - friendly people, beautiful scenery, decent connections.
Yep, I liked living in Sherborne.

