Let's move to Grimsby and Cleethorpes, Lincolnshire: tired but
handsome

Despite being beset by economic and social problems, evidence of the
towns' 19th-century heyday remains

Cleethorpes seafront with tourists close to the pier

Cleethorpes seafront with its silky sand.

What's going for it?

If you want to see why so many people voted (and would still vote) for
Brexit, these are the perfect places to start. These conjoined twins
have been in a death spiral for decades. The story is depressingly
familiar: the sudden removal of a place's main reason for being,
various feeble attempts at sticking-plaster "regeneration" and decades
of underinvestment. Today, Grimsby and Cleethorpes need big thinking.
There are a few, much-feted, green shoots: the wind-farm industry, for
instance (Grimsby has more of its energy demands met by renewables
than anywhere else in the country); or the turning of Grimsby's
evocative, 19th-century dockside Kasbah district into a conservation
area. Whether these green shoots will grow, though, is a moot point.
The area faces formidable challenges. On the plus side, the towns can
be truly beautiful, with handsome 19th-century homes, delightful parks
and silky sand on the beach. Its community is battered, but of a
strength most places would envy. Nobody could wish these places
anything but better fortune, love and, most importantly, a whole lot
of cash.

The case against

Where to begin. The full gamut of economic and social problems.
Grimsby, in particular, was heavily damaged by redevelopment in the
70s.

Well connected?

Out on a limb, but not as isolated as many say, especially by car.
Trains: not the finest service; hourly to Doncaster and the east coast
mainline (65 minutes), 55 minutes to Lincoln (every two or three
hours) and 42 minutes to Barton-upon-Humber (every two hours).
Driving: an hour to Doncaster and the A1(M), 50 minutes to Hull; you
can be up in the Wolds in 15 minutes.

Schools

Primaries: Old Clee, St Mary's Catholic, Lisle Marsden, Ormiston South
Parade, Yarborough, Grange, Western, Fairfield, William Barcroft,
Littlecoates and Scartho are all "good", says Ofsted, with Elliston
"outstanding". Secondaries: Havelock and Oasis Wintringham are both
"good".

Hang out at...

Papa's Fish & Chips at the end of Cleethorpes Pier. Save the scraps
for me. Great nearby country pubs: the New Inn in Great Limber and the
Ship in Barnoldby-Le-Beck.

Where to buy

Both towns have some especially fine late-Victorian and Edwardian
homes. In Grimsby: the neighbourhood around People's Park, Park Drive
especially, to Bargate, up to Abbey Road and south to Weelsby Road. In
Cleethorpes: the avenues on and off Queens Parade. Decent terraces
around Hainton Avenue. Suburbans around Waltham Road, Louth Road,
south to Scartho and around Cleethorpes Country Park. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £250,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£130,000-£250,000. Semis, £60,000-£340,000. Terraces and cottages,
£25,000-£150,000. Flats, £25,000-£250,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £280-£580pcm; a three-bedroom house, £350-£750pcm.

Bargain of the week

A wonderful, listed, detached three-bedroom home, needing full
modernisation, £115,000, with jacksongreenpreston.co.uk.

From the streets

Becky Barnes
"The green spaces, such as People's Park and Weelsby Woods are
beautiful, and there's an emerging local business scene with great
places to shop and eat. I love Riverhead Coffee and Tredici."

Jenny Chamberlain
"Thriving independent businesses. Lovely being so close to the beach
(in Cleethorpes), and you can't beat Grimsby fish and chips."

Do you live in Grimsby or Cleethorpes? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Bermondsey, south-east London? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
25 June.

Comments

Live in Cleethorpes, in a big old town house 200m from a lovely blue
flag beach. Kids went to two outstanding schools, Signhills Primary
Academy and Humberston Secondary Academy. Check out #cleethorpes on
Instagram - the most hashtagged place in the UK last year.

Grew up and work in Grimsby, it's a place with its challenges yes but
you'll never find a population with more honesty and grit. We are on
the verge of a new era for the town with inward...

Having moved from Oxfordshire, I have lived in a Lincs village between
Grimsby and Louth for the past 30 years. Like most places there is
good and bad. The people are for the most friendly and helpful but a
minority revel in ignorant and parochial attitudes. The area is a long
way from London and has been ignored and neglected by successive
governments, attitudes reflect that. As a parting shot our family has
three generations living in the area...

