Let's move to Whitstable, Kent: pockets of peace on the gentrified
seaside

The town still manages to balance quite-posh delis with men's
outfitters from the age of Perry Como

Seafront houses at Whitstable, Kent

Whitstable, Kent: "Some serious money has arrived."


What's going for it?

I'm an old hand at Whitstable. Not as old as some of the seadogs
nursing pints in the Neptune. But I've been coming here since the days
when, if fortune smiled, you might spy the elderly Peter Cushing - 
then the town's starriest resident - pottering along the high street.
What a difference 30 years makes. My latest trip confirms that
Whitstable has reached stage four of gentrification. We've had the
Shabby Artists stage, the Cute Vintage Shop stage, the Actually Quite
Posh Delis Have Opened stage. Now some serious money has arrived: The
Building Of Fancy New Houses That Look As If Their Owners Have Watched
Too Many Episodes Of Grand Designs stage. This lot aren't content with
discreet renovations of weatherboarded fishermen's cottages. They want
swagger. They want bling. I hope it's not the town's downfall. The
place still, just, manages to balance quite-posh delis with men's
outfitters from the age of Perry Como, and its community is still as
strong as they come. It's working harbour, graced by a gravel
processing plant, is still wonderfully unpretty. Long may it continue.


The case against...

On the threshold of change. Already too cutesy for some. Holiday and
weekend homes have brought hefty cultural change.


Well connected?

Trains: two an hour to Faversham (8 mins) and Margate (22 mins); one
or two an hour to London St Pancras (75-81 mins, but sometimes
longer). Bus: to Canterbury (30 mins, every 10). Driving: 20 mins to
Canterbury, Margate in 30 mins, the M25 in 45 mins, Ashford in 40 mins
and Folkestone in 45.


Schools

Primaries: Joy Lane, Whitstable Junior, St Alphege CofE Infant, St
Mary's Catholic and Swalecliffe are all "good", says Ofsted, with
Westmeads Community Infant "outstanding". Secondaries: the newly named
Whitstable School was previously "good".


Hang out at...

The much-lauded Sportsman is just outside town, but JoJo's in
Tankerton is my favourite. You'll also find me in the queue for fish
and chips at VC Jones.


Where to buy

The centre, with its long trailing high street, has alleys and
passages of 18th-century townhouses and weatherboarded cottages, plus
a great grid of small Victorian terraces around St Peter's Road.
Island Wall and the waterfront prom are most sought after. The
fanciest homes are along Preston Parade in Seasalter, and Marine
Parade up the hill in Tankerton; in Tankerton itself, though, you can
escape the crowds - some great early 20th-century homes. Large
detacheds and townhouses, £500,000-£1.5m. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £250,000-£500,000. Semis, £250,000-£650,000. Terraces and
cottages, £220,000-£500,000. Flats, £160,000-£450,000. Rentals: a
one-bed flat, £650-£800pcm; a three-bed house, £825-£1,450pcm.


Bargain of the week

A three-bedroom postwar terrace, £235,000 with milesandbarr.co.uk.



From the streets

Emma Soutar
"Try the beach at high tide with a doughnut souffle from The Forge."

James Styles 
"Bad points: gridlock in summer; crazy house prices in centre. Good
thing: lots of independent shops."



Live in Whitstable? Join the debate below.

Live in Oswestry? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet hate? If so,
email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9 April.




Comments

And price the locals out.

Used to live in Herne Bay 30 years ago, Whitstable used to have a great
market and was pretty quiet... if I remember correctly there used to
be a mannequin in one of the house windows on the way into town...
anyway... recently visited, wow, cavear in your local shop and peaches
for about £5 each... apparently requests to have the fishing equipment
removed from the beach are common place.... a tale of two towns....
will become devoid of character in the end

That's life. If only you'd been born somewhere that didn't have any
desirability to house hunters.

There's something so grim about East Coast seaside towns. The murkey
waters. Harsh stoney beaches. Being bombarded in summer by city bods.
Desolate in winter.

There's a weird energy in those places. I know it can be said about
many places but I always felt a 'chill' in my bones in those towns,
especially in Kent.

Anyway enough of my cheerfulness, just had to vent and to see if
anyone feels the same chills in those parts, so to speak.

Spent all of my summer holidays in Dover or Herne Bay, walking to
Reculver, with occasional trips to Whitstable. Talking 50s and 60s.

The 'murky' waters however are surprisingly warm, all the way up to
and including North Norfolk. And the murk comes from sand, not
pollution.

