Let's move to Warwick: as English as roast beef

Once one of the most significant towns in the country, these days it's
left mostly for the townsfolk

Warwick, Warwickshire

Warwick, Warwickshire: utterly ordinary and utterly exceptional at the
same time.


What's going for it?

So dominated are the Midlands by the great sprawl of Birmingham, you
can easily forget what they were like before the industrial
revolution. Places such as Warwick were once the metaphorical, as well
as the literal heart of the country - as English as oak trees, John
Bull and roast beef. Middle England. Middle Earth. Tolkien got married
here. Shakespeare would namecheck the town as some kind of epitome of
the English spirit. Today, people come with seven-year-olds in plastic
chainmail and swords for the humungous castle, equal parts astonishing
relic and ye olde theme parke; but the town behind, once one of the
most significant in the country, is these days mostly left for the
townsfolk. Lucky them. It's beautiful, high on its bluff above the
Avon and scattered with everything you'd expect in an ancient town, as
English as, well, you get the picture. Georgian townhouses, Queen Anne
mansions, tottering half-timbered Tudor and tea shops with a nice line
in toasted teacakes. It's somehow both utterly ordinary and utterly
exceptional at the same time.


The case against...

Yes, it's a tad provincial. But what lies on your doorstep - from the
theatre at Stratford, the universities in Coventry and the bright
lights of Brum - more than makes up for it.


Well connected?

Trains: to Leamington (five to 10 minutes), Birmingham (30-40
minutes), London (an hour and 35 minutes) and Stratford (35 minutes).
Driving: it's about 10 minutes to Leamington and the M40, 15 to
Coventry, three-quarters of an hour to central Birmingham and 35
minutes to Birmingham Airport.


Schools

Primaries: among many "good", Ofsted says, Emscote Infant and Coten
End are "outstanding". Secondaries: Myton and Aylesford are both
"good". Some venerable independents, too.


Hang out at...

The Rose & Crown gives good ye olde pubbe-ness. Tailors on Market
Place is the town's food hotspot.


Where to buy

The old heart of town, centred on the arc of West Street, High Street
to Coten End and around the curl of the river, is fabulous. From
proper medieval to Victoriana, via a great line in Georgian townhouses
after Warwick was rebuilt following its own 17th-century great fire.
Church Street, Northgate Street and Old Square for 18th-century
lovelies, Mill Street for medieval. Nice, compact Victorian
neighbourhoods around Priory Park, which is close to the station.
Suburban estates are most in demand on and off Emscote Road towards
Leamington. Large detacheds and townhouses, £450,000-£1.6m. Detacheds
and smaller townhouses, £300,000-£450,000. Semis, £225,000-£600,000.
Terraces and cottages, £210,000-£500,000. Flats, £110,000-£500,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £575-£775pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£850-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week

Two-bedroom 19th-century brick terrace, close to the station, £207,500
with donaldcarter.co.uk.

From the streets

Kerry Burton
"The Grand Union Canal, which runs east to west, is wonderful for
walking."

Jane Redshaw
"Very good market in The Square every Saturday."

John Allison
"The small but perfectly formed Thirteen bakery."

Live in Warwick? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Anglesey, Wales? Do you have a favourite haunt or pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 January.


Comments

Good luck with the traffic jams around Warwick and Leamington.

Myton Road - worse than any road I've travelled in London. We moved
out of our dead-end road backing onto Myton Road just to get away from
the traffic. It once took me half an hour just to get out of our road
onto Myton Road. When we had visitors they simply couldn't believe the
last half-mile to our house.

Not enough people cycle/use buses but I really can't blame them. The
cycle lanes on Emscote are full of potholes & parked cars, and a
single bus from Warwick to Leamington is £3.40 which is ridiculous
considering they're joined together

and its own university, only 8 miles away

In Coventry

...which can confuse people. A colleague visiting the University
recently got the train to Warwick and was surprised that the
University was nowhere near. Not an uncommon occurrence either.

