Let's move to Lancaster, Lancashire: it's grander than you might think

A slightly forgotten city of excellent pubs, doughty inhabitants and
beautiful buildings

The converted warehouses on St Georges Quay, Lancaster, with the
Priory Church on Castle Hill behind.

Lancaster: "Its grandeur came at a cost, one mostly paid for by
slaves."


What's going for it?

Grander than you might think, Lancaster, if you think about it at all.
Only intrepid tour coaches make it this far, leaving this slightly
forgotten city of excellent pubs, doughty inhabitants and beautiful
buildings largely for the Lancastrians. Its severe castle, high on the
hill, looks ripped enough to withstand a meteorite, while the streets
and squares below, curling round the foot of Castle Hill and spreading
up to Dalton Square and the Town Hall, are thick with columned
porticoes, churches and stone Georgian townhouses. This grandeur came
at a cost, of course, one mostly paid by slaves. Lancaster was once
the fourth largest slave trade port in England after London, Liverpool
and Bristol, a fact it finally acknowledged in 2005 with a memorial to
the millions amid the warehouses and wharves on St George's Quay. Far
more searing, though, is a tiny 18th-century grave to a slave who died
soon after arriving, lonely amid salt marshes by the seashore just
outside the city, at Sunderland Point. Residents and schoolchildren
tend it still, with flowers and painted stones.


The case against...

More could be made of the city's riverfront; and recent developments
and buildings don't live up to the city's heritage.


Well connected?

Trains: on the west coast mainline to Preston (16-20 mins) and
Manchester (1hr). Driving: the M6 swoops past, making Preston 40 mins
away, Blackpool 50 mins, the Lakes or the Dales 40 mins and Manchester
70 mins. The beach at Morecambe is 10 minutes down the road.


Schools

Primaries: alongside many rated "good" by Ofsted, Scotforth St Paul's
CofE and St Bernadette's Catholic are "outstanding".

Secondaries: Central Lancaster High and Our Lady's Catholic are
"good", with Ripley St Thomas CofE, Lancaster Girls' Grammar and
Lancaster Royal Grammar (boys) "outstanding".


Hang out at...

The Borough is the local star, fine in its Georgian splendour. The Sun
pulls an excellent pint.


Where to buy

The old heart of Georgian houses, grand and humble, tumbles down from
the castle. Glorious to explore. There's a dense ring of Victorian
properties, too, around the centre and on the roads out of town - for
example, off Greaves and Scotforth Roads south and west. A nice little
nugget of houses is to be found by the river, around Portland Road.
Also south, near the university campus. There's a fair number of 1960s
to 1980s suburbans located close to the M6. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £350,000-£900,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£120,000-£350,000. Semis, £85,000-£450,000. Terraces and cottages,
£65,000-£325,000. Flats, £60,000-£350,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom
flat, £450-£650pcm; a three-bedroom house, £600-£1,100pcm.


Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom semi, in need of TLC, yours for £65,000, with
farrellheyworth.co.uk


Let's move to Whitley Bay, Tyne and Wear: it has maintained its pride
and beauty

Live in Lancaster? Join the debate below


From the streets

Alex Woywodt 
"Atkinsons is a 19th-century coffee maker."

Sarah Jackson 
"Williamson Park has the most spectacular view in England."

Do you live in Dumfries? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 17 September.


Comments

The Atkinson's shop is an amazing place with the original tins for
teas and ancient bean roasting contraptions. Got married at Ashton
Memorial. The promenades in the park (plays where you move around the
park from scene to scene are brilliant although a shame not to have
one this summer. Dressing up is a new pair of Ron Hill trackies with
your fleece. Recommend the Herbarium for vegan.

Well I've lived here since 2002 so: More middle class (though not
wholly) than most Lancashire cities and towns. We have 10 Green Party
city councillors which should tell you a lot about our demographic.
There is a vibrant music and music promoting scene. Article should
also mention our beautiful canal! which is adorned by a couple of pubs
and far remoter stretches. We could do with better later train links
to our big brother Manchester...

Moved here ten years ago to the Aldcliffe area.
Yes there is a lot of jobs and the city is flourishing.

The best bit is that it has a small village feel wrapped up in a
historic city. People are friendly and there is tons to do close by (
Trough of Bowland/Lakes/ Silverdale/Arnside etc plus a Great music
festival and only ten minutes to see the best sunsets in the North.

I love Lancaster... despite the rain. It is a great place to live and
work.

Lived in Lancaster for a few years and it's a lovely place. Attractive
buildings with a beautiful park overlooking the city. Would echo the
excellent pub range too, and to save a lengthy list I'll add the White
Cross and Water Witch on top of The Sun (poss my favourite) - and if
you're willing to take a bus ride to the university, the Grad Bar (aka
The Herdwick) has a stellar range of ales usually for around £3 a
pint.

I live in Lancaster, moved up here to join my wife nearly 10 years
ago.

It's a sleeply little city, lovely place to raise your children and
retire too, but the in-between years there isn't much to keep people,
very little industry, very dependent on the public sector the local
hospital and the local authority employ the majority of the city's
people.

