Let's move to Buxton, Derbyshire: it's good for mind, body and soul

After a few years in the doldrums, today's hankering for wellbeing and
hen-do spa parties has put a spring back in its step

Buxton, Derbyshire: "It's a town built like a fitness class."

What's going for it? 

One thousand feet up in the clouds (OK, drizzle), with barely a street
not at a 45-degree angle, Buxton is a town built like a fitness class.
Work that body. It's been a spot encouraging the restitution of health
for centuries. The Romans spotted the Jacuzzi-warm water bubbling out
of the hills, awfully good for settling the tum; but it was the
Georgians who turned Buxton into the Bath-of-the-north, with columns,
crescents, domes and, if they'd been invented then, neoclassical hot
tubs, too. After a few years in the doldrums, today's hankering for
wellbeing and hen-do spa parties has put a spring back in its step (no
pun intended). It remains a place thoroughly good for mind, body and
soul, with its elegant streetscape and refined arts scene. There are
enough trees and countryside for a forest bath, and enough spas and
sou'westerlies for a more watery soak. The result being that
Buxtonians are as chilled and zen as a Buddhist monk, as trim and
hench as Joe Wicks, with the lungs of a Nepalese Sherpa, the skin of a
newborn babe and digestion as regular as a Swiss train. Right?

The case against 

Rainy. And when it's not rainy, cloudy. And when it's not cloudy,
misty. And when it's not misty... you get the picture.

Well connected? 

Trains: to Manchester Piccadilly (54-62 mins). Driving: just over an
hour to central Manchester, just under to Sheffield, 45 mins to
Manchester airport, the M6 and the M56.

Schools 

Primaries: Fairfield Infant, Fairfield CofE, Burbage, Manifold CofE,
Buxton Junior and Harpur Hill are all "good", Ofsted says, with Buxton
Infant "outstanding". Secondaries: Buxton Community and St Thomas More
Catholic are both "good".

Hang out at... 

It's a pastry at the Pig & Pepper bakery for me - I need something to
work off on those inclines. The Old Sun Inn and the Tap House serve a
nice pint. Columbine seems to be the spot for dinner a deux.

Where to buy 

The odd stretch of Georgiana aside, it's a mostly Victorian and
Edwardian sort of place. The Park Road estate, laid out by Joseph
Paxton and featuring some first-class villas, is top spot, but there
are plenty of large, stone, high Victorian gothics, and Arts and
Crafts family homes looking for owners on the streets around Pavilion
Gardens, and Macclesfield Road down to Green Lane. There's a nice area
of less grand homes east of Ashwood Park. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £450,000-£1m, occasionally higher. Detacheds and smaller
townhouses, £250,000-£450,000. Semis, £150,000-£500,000. Terraces and
cottages, £100,000-£350,000. Flats, £100,000-£375,000. Rentals: a
one-bedroom flat, £400-£600pcm; a three-bedroom house, £700-£1,200pcm.

Bargain of the week 

A spacious six-bed Victorian townhouse, newly reduced, needs
modernisation; £299,950, with buryandhilton.co.uk.

From the streets

Kate Beardon
"53 Degrees North, stocked with gins. Buxton has a climate of its own;
it's the coldest place I have lived."

David Anderson
"We have lost M&S (there's still a Waitrose) but who cares when there
are so many family-run shops?"

Live in Buxton? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Walton-on-the-Naze? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 24
September.
