Let's move to... Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire: more like three towns
in one

It didn't get the best new town architecture, but you can find
fragments of the old landscape threaded through

Hemel Hempstead old town

'Higgledy high street, antique shops, Norman church': Hemel Hempstead
old town.

What's going for it?

I bought my first album in WHSmith in Hemel Hempstead. Kings Of The
Wild Frontier, by Adam and the Ants, since you ask. On cassette. Like
Mr Ant, Hemel was the future once. In 1980, it was in full new-town
mode. To get there, Dad had to negotiate the dual carriageways, ring
roads and the infamous Magic Roundabout, past the Kodak HQ, the
fabulous Dacorum sports centre where I learned to doggy paddle, and
perfectly manicured water meadow municipal gardens. I loved Hemel.
Especially as it was two towns in one. To the north of the new town
was the old town: higgledy high street, antique shops, Norman church
and bow-fronted cottages. Now Hemel is three towns in one, the old
town and the new town having in turn been gobbled up by the future.
Hemel's new new town is mostly composed of executive homes, Cineworld
and the brassy Marlowes shopping mall. The Kodak site has become a
luxury apartment complex. And doggy paddling is outgunned by "extreme
sports" centres and an indoor ski centre. The future has better
coffee. But, call me middle aged, I kind of preferred the past.

The case against

If you don't like the postwar feel, with the 1980s grafted on, it
won't be for you. Though you can get your heritage kicks in the
fragments of the old landscape threaded through the new.

Well connected?

Very. Trains: to London Euston (26-36 mins), Watford (7-11 mins), plus
an hourly service via Kensington (40 mins) and Clapham (52 mins) to
Croydon. Heading north, to Milton Keynes (27-35 mins) and Northampton
(44-47mins). Driving: on the M1, with the M25 10 minutes away;
Heathrow 35 mins, central London an hour.

Schools

Primaries: Pixies Hill, Chaulden Infants, Micklem, St Rose's Catholic
Infants, Boxmoor, St Cuthbert Mayne Catholic, Gade Valley, George
Street, Hobletts Manor Junior and Infants, South Hill, Tudor, Lime
Walk, St Albert the Great Catholic, Hobbs Hill Wood, Chambersbury,
Belswains and Nash Mills CofE are all "good", Ofsted says.
Secondaries: John F Kennedy Catholic, the Hemel Hempstead, the
Collett, Longdean and Astley Cooper are all "good". The Laureate
Academy and Adeyfield have no reports yet.

Hang out at...

The Tea Tree tearooms in the old town. Delightful.

Where to buy

You can find the remnants of the old town, with historic properties on
the High Street, and mostly Victorian stretches in places like
Boxmoor. Hemel didn't get the best new town architecture; the nicest
postwar homes are in Leverstock Green and Gadebridge. Felden, south,
with the Chilterns beckoning, is the poshest spot. Large detacheds and
townhouses, £600,000-£1.5m. Semis, £320,000-£750,000. Flats,
£150,000-£525,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £700-£1,000pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £1,100-£1,350pcm.

Bargain of the week

Two-bedroom Victorian terrace, close to the old High Street, £300,000,
with searsandco.co.uk.

From the streets

Caroline Leinster
"Reasonably priced houses with gardens and good size rooms, though
architecture not fashionable now."

Hans Peters
"Canal towpath walks, the Fishery Wharf cafe and Mad Squirrel
brewery."

Live in Hemel Hempstead? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Helmsley, North Yorkshire? Do you have a favourite
haunt or a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday
23 July.

