Let's move to Croydon, south London: is Stormzy's birthplace the Centre of the Universe?

It's been through countless incarnations, but it could just be its
time has come

Croydon town centre with London double decker bus & tram public
transport services & the No.1 Croydon NLA Tower landmark beyond

Croydon town centre, for trams and tower blocks.


What's going for it? 

Croydon's had more reinventions than Madonna, more facelifts than Joan
Rivers, risen from the dead more times than Nosferatu. At various
times, it has been market town, saffron supplier, archbishops'
retreat, industrial town, home of London's first airport (when flying
was glam), a mini-Manhattan of towers and flyovers, and a byword for
suburban ennui. Now, thanks to a namecheck from homegrown Stormzy at
Glastonbury, years as the birthplace of dubstep and considerable hard
work from the council planning department to ameliorate its landscape,
Croydon is the centre of the universe. Or nearly. The anticapitalist
in me might shudder at new arrivals such as shipping-container complex
Boxpark, the self-styled "iconic" Saffron Tower and (possibly) a new
Westfield, but on the other hand, trams! Love a tram, me. Lovely new
public spaces! Ditto. The refreshed Fairfield Halls! Good enough for
Chuck Berry and Bucks Fizz. And so on. There are always pluses to the
minuses, if you care to look.


The case against 

Continual reinvention is tiring, and not always for the better.
Attracts sneers, but who cares about trolls? Purley Way - even outside
rush hour.


Well connected? 

Very. Trains: from East Croydon to London Bridge, Victoria, City
Thameslink and St Pancras (all mostly 15-20 mins), to Clapham Junction
(9 mins) and out to Surrey, Sussex and Gatwick (15 mins). West Croydon
is on the Overground, for east London and beyond. Driving: 25 mins to
the M25, a good hour into central London if you're lucky; traffic can
be snarly. Did I mention Purley Way?


Schools 

Primaries: many rated good, with West Thornton, Chestnut Park, Park
Hill Infants, Heathfield and Harris Haling Park "outstanding".
Secondaries: The Brit School, which counts Adele and Tom Holland as
alumni, St Mary's Catholic, Oasis Shirley Park, Saffron Valley
Collegiate, Archbishop Tenison CE and St Giles are all "good", with
Harris Invictus, Wilson's (boys) and Harris Purley "outstanding". The
new Combe Wood has not been inspected.


Hang out at... 

Boxpark at least delivers the world on a plate, from Taiwan to Sri
Lanka via gourmet doughnuts. Shoutouts for Anabella's Kitchen,
Matthews Yard and tapas at Galicia.


Where to buy 

The edges are plump with large early 20th-century piles. East, by
Lloyd Park, Grimwade Avenue, Oaks Road and the like, south to Croham
Manor Road and Haling Park are good hunting grounds. Addiscombe has
smaller homes of the same period; especially nice is the East India
estate. Victorian terraces aplenty in cheaper north Croydon towards
Thornton Heath. Large detacheds and townhouses: £725,000-£1.5m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses: £400,000-£725,000. Semis:
£350,000-£800,000. Terraces and cottages: £300,000-£575,000.
Flats: £175,000-£875,000. Rentals: one-bed flat, £800-£1,000pcm;
three-bed house, £1,200-£2,200pcm.


Bargain of the week 

Postwar, two-bed terrace, needs modernisation; £270,000, with
townends.co.uk.


From the streets

Susan Moore 
"The Ludoquist, a board games cafe with craft beers and great
gluten-free brownies."

Andrew Green 
"The recently reopened Fairfield Halls. It's said the acoustics
outclass the Royal Festival Hall."



Do you live in Croydon? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Glossop? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 8 October.


Comments

Moved to Croydon five years ago after being priced out of Brixton by
greedy landlords. It has its downsides - crime is high and parts of
the town centre are now very run down due to the delayed Westfield
development. But it also has beautiful parks, plenty of excellent
places to eat and drink, rich history, a vibrant street market and
more ethnic food shops than you can shake a stick at!

Woah, there is a lot of hate for Croydon here.

I've lived in North London, South London, the Midlands, Scotland,
Italy, Croydon... and it is a fine place to live.

If you live in the north of the borough you're able to whizz up to
Blackfriars in 15 minutes on the Thameslink, or whizz south by car or
e-bike for 15 minutes and find yourself strolling alone through acres
of ancient woodland. It's a combination of incredibly easy access to
town...

So many opinions about Croydon, all of them wrong.

It's important to separate the Cronx town centre and the borough as a
whole. The centre's clearly been neglected for years and recently has
really suffered from planning blight as the promised Westfield has
been delayed and delayed and delayed again. It's not in good shape but
there is a lot of regeneration going on even today. What's not clear
is who's going to make use of the the whizzy new...

Croydonian born and bred now living amongst the gum trees in
Buninyong, Australia but I felt moved to comment.

It's a bit difficult to generalise about a borough with such a stark
north-south divide. I came from the north of the borough, Norbury, and
while it's an area that's had its issues it now has a very active
community association and seems to be forging ahead.


 