Let's move to Brecon, Powys: "Bright streets and brooding Beacons"

Whether you want to hike up them or admire them from a cafe, there's
no escaping the hills in this Welsh market town

Brecon, Powys: "People come from far to test themselves against the
power of the Beacons and their national park."

Brecon, Powys: "People come from far to test themselves against the
power of the Beacons and their national park."


What's going for it?

I used to climb up the Malvern Hills as a kid and gaze at the rest of
the universe from the top. I could always spot the Brecon Beacons:
their chiselled, flat-topped peaks gave them away, against the soft
curves of the Herefordshire hills. Up close they're just as
recognisable, only now with added high-res moorland broodiness,
glowering over the town of Brecon like something menacing that you
sense from the corner of your eye. There's little escaping them in the
gay streets of this market town, a continuous gloomy foil to its
brightly painted Georgian streets, dotted with craft galleries and
secondhand bookshops. People come from far to test themselves against
the power of the Beacons and their national park, calibrating their
challenge according to the strength of their thighs and the age of
their heart. The Brecon Beast? Or a gentle hike, leaving time for an
ice-cream at Llanfaes Dairy, a bit of window shopping and a mooch
around the ancient font inside the sturdy walls of the cathedral.
Well, you know which one I picked.


The case against

The glowering countryside and (whenever I go at least) grey weather is
not for everyone. There's no railway, so you're here for the duration.


Well connected?

Trains: no trains; decent buses, though, to Abergavenny (with a
station; hourly, 40min-1hr) and Crickhowell (hourly, 25-40 mins), with
six or seven a day to Cardiff, Hay and Llandrindod Wells. Driving:
you're in mid-Wales, so don't expect speed; 30 minutes to Abergavenny,
an hour to Cardiff, Hereford and Newport (and the M4), just over for
Swansea and the seaside.


Schools

Primaries: Mount Street Infants and Junior, Priory CIW and Llanfaes
Community are all "good", says Estyn. Secondaries: Brecon High is
mostly "adequate and needs improvement".


Hang out at...

The fantastic Felin Fach Griffin dining pub with rooms is just
outside. Though I had smashing fish'n'chips from the West End Fish Bar
in town, and a delicious raspberry ripple at Llanfaes Dairy.


Where to buy

The centre, curled around the cathedral on its hill, is full of
delightful cottages and Georgian townhouses, either brightly painted
or grey stone. Watton is a particularly fantastic stretch of period
property. The eastern side of town has the best in suburban leafiness
– try on and off Cerrigcochion Road and Camden Road. Large detacheds
and townhouses, £350,000-£600,000. Detacheds and smaller townhouses,
£200,000-£350,000. Semis, £150,000-£300,000. Terraces and cottages,
£125,000-£200,000. Flats, £90,000-£160,000. Rentals: very little.


Bargain of the week

In need of complete modernisation, a three-bedroom period terrace on
the south side of the River Usk is yours for £105,000, with
jamesdean.co.uk.


From the streets

Virginia Brown
"The Hours cafe bookshop and deli - Brecon's best."

Nigel Spooner
"A quiet, friendly feel - vibrant high street, riverside location. A
shame we can't revive the railway; the nearest station is Abergavenny,
22 miles away."



Live in Brecon? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ripon, Yorkshire? Do you have a favourite haunt or a
pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 2 April.



Comments

Pedants corner - Abergavenny is not the nearest station. Stations are
almost equidistant to north, east, south and west with Merthyr (south)
and Llandovery (west) being slightly closer than 'Aber' (east) and
Builth (north).

You and I know they're thinking only of the fastest route to London.

Very fond memories of visiting in the late 80s and early 90s - young
then we could manage longer and steeper walks that are well beyond us
now. As for the weather - the broodier the better. If you want
sunshine go to the beach.

I agree with you on the weather, you get dramatic fogs over the
mountains and when it rains it rains properly! not the pesky drizzle
one is used to in the south and east of England you could even argue
that it is a much better place to be in a summer heatwave than London
and the south as the temperatures are manageable(25 instead of 30)

