Let's move to Thurso and Dunnet Bay, Caithness: life at the edge of
the map

Let's move to ...

The ferocious seas and wide skies conjure up that
falling-off-the-world feeling


Thurso, Scotland

Thurso: 'One can't help but get a little existential.'

What's going for it?

Nobody would think to look for me in Thurso. Well they would now. (Or
is that my double bluff?) Passing through the town, once, on the way
to Lybster, as you do, the thought occurred to me that this would be
an excellent place to disappear to, were I on the run from Villanelle,
or when the going got rough, or the end of the world beckoned (or all
three). For here is the end of our particular world, the most
northerly town - and, with Dunnet Head, the most northerly point - in
mainland Britain. The ferocious seas and wide skies conjure up that
falling-off-the-edge-of-the-map feeling, which always seems to
accompany places that really are at the edge of the map (though which
is probably psychosomatic). Here, the wild mountains and crofting
villages a little to the west of Britain's northern coast give on to
gentler rolling hills of bog, gorse, heather and Neolithic cairns,
which end abruptly in sheer cliffs inhabited by gazillions of
seabirds. Humans are outnumbered here and, faced with that and the
falling-off-the-edge-of-the-map feeling, one can't help but get a
little existential, staring out at the waves and the Orkney Islands
and contemplating Brexit, Trump, the climate crisis and the state of
the universe. What's it all about, eh? Surrounded by the surfers and
soft white sand of Dunnet Bay, it's a fine place in which to hunker
down awaiting Armageddon.

The case against

A long way away, obvs, unless you're from Kirkwall. It appears the
memo has gone round Thurso: any colour so long as it's grey. Come
on... get out the Dulux and paint the town red, or turquoise, or lemon
yellow.

Well connected?

For the end of the Earth, yes. Trains: to Inverness (3hrs 45mins), or
the other way to Wick (29 mins). Buses: eight a day to Inverness, and
hourly to Scrabster for the ferry to the Orkney Islands. Driving: 25
mins to Wick, two-and-a-half hours to Inverness.

Schools

Primaries: evaluation criteria for Miller are "good" or
"satisfactory", and for Mount Pleasant mostly "good", says Education
Scotland; there's no current report for Pennyland. Secondaries: the
town's Thurso High has no current inspection report.

Hang out at..
The Captain's Galley in Scrabster, for fresh seafood with the ocean
before you.

Where to buy

At its heart is a Victorian grid of low-density stone villas, terraces
and townhouses sloping up the hill, all delightful and in excellent
nick. Surrounding this on the flanks out of town are postwar to
contemporary suburbans, many built for the Dounreay nuclear power
station when that was operating. Detacheds and townhouses,
£100,000-£250,000. Semis, £75,000-£125,000. Terraces and cottages,
£75,000-£125,000. Flats, £55,000-£150,000. Rentals: scant properties
for rent in the wider area.

Bargain of the week

Spacious, two-bedroom terraced cottage in the conservation area. Could
do with an update. Yours for £75,000, with youngrobertson.co.uk.

From the streets

Nog Clark
"An excellent traditional music session in the Comm Bar on Wednesday
night, and usually proper beer."

Live in Thurso and Dunnet Bay? Join the debate below

Do you live in Cardigan? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet hate?
If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 9 July.


Comments

Thurso has a top class surfing beach, the water is cold but the swell
is huge. Dunnet Bay, up the road, is great for bodyboarding. Caithness
is a place for enjoying the outdoors and enduring some harsh weather,
that's part of the charm though, it's alive, the air is so pure, the
winds so fierce, and the light, it's magical.

It's worth mentioning that Thurso is named after Thor too.

