Let's move to Chichester, West Sussex: edgy? No - but punches well
above its weight

This place has no dark side, unless it's hidden deep, deep in its
repressed past

Chichester, West Sussex

Chichester, West Sussex: "It's well-rounded, nicely brought up."

What's going for it?

Chichester is so generally lovely, it's impossible to be rude about
it. For a city of its relatively small size, it's well-rounded, nicely
brought up. Every base is covered. It has ancient history - 
buttercrosses, green men, bell towers, Roman baths, the works - and
fine contemporary architecture, including a surprisingly super
selection of postwar homes. It has the best seaside, up the road in
the dreamy dunes of West Wittering, and the beautiful hills of the
South Downs (including - top trivia - Britain's only yew forest). It
also punches well above its weight culturally, with a Chagall
stained-glass window in the cathedral, film festivals and poetry
slams, and the Festival theatre and Pallant House art gallery's
Hepworths and Hamiltons. Traffic on the A27 and house prices aside - a
mighty big aside - this place has no dark side, unless it's hidden
deep in its repressed past. It is sunshine in bricks and mortar,
which, for some, might be the most annoying thing in the universe.

The case against...

Those looking for even a bit of edge should probably go to Portsmouth.
There could be a touch fewer chains in town.

Well connected?

Trains: to Southampton (52 to 58 minutes) and Portsmouth (23 to 37
minutes); and to Brighton (50 to 60 minutes); Gatwick Airport (one
hour); and London (90 minutes). Driving: 15 minutes to the A3, 25 to
Portsmouth, 50 to Southampton; 15 minutes to the sandy dunes at the
Witterings, 10 minutes to be on the South Downs.

Schools

Primaries: Jessie Younghusband, Parklands Community, Portfield, St
Richard's Catholic, Chichester Free and Fishbourne CofE are all
"good", says Ofsted, with St Anthony's "outstanding". Secondaries: St
Anthony's and Chichester Free are "good", with Chichester High and
Bishop Luffa CofE "outstanding".

Hang out at...

The wonderful, independent New Park cinema. There is room for
improvement in its eating scene. Most of the pulls round here are out
of town (the Earl of March and the Royal Oak in the Lavants, Cassons
in Tangmere or the Richmond Arms in West Ashling).

Where to buy

The entire centre is a conservation area, and it shows. You won't want
for idyllic Georgian townhouses or 17th-century cottages tucked down
lanes; but keep an eye out for some great postwar property, too. The
historic roads out of town, such as Westgate, are also studded with
beauties. For suburbans, north is most popular, edging the Downs, like
Summersdale and Fishbourne. It gets very pricey and chichi on
Chichester Harbour. Large detacheds and townhouses, £550,000-£2m.
Detacheds and smaller townhouses, £300,000-£550,000. Semis,
£275,000-£575,000. Terraces and cottages, £250,000-£550,000. Flats,
£150,000-£750,000. Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £660-£820pcm; a
three-bedroom house, £950-£1,250pcm.

Bargain of the week
Three-bedroom 1960s/70s terrace, £244,950 with leaders.co.uk.

From the streets

Laurence Knight
"The Saturday market is scruffy and a bit naff - perfect. Not enough
good pubs."

Rachael Tout
"The small shops in Draper's Yard are the best."

Do you live in Chichester? Join the debate below.

Do you live in Ormeau, Belfast? Do you have a favourite haunt or a pet
hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 13 August.


Comments

Good restaurant? Field & Fork right next to Priory Park. Fantastic
food, some of the best waiting staff you'll ever meet, and don't miss
the incredibly good value three course £12 lunch menu.

I have known Chichester since childhood. Certainly an attractive town,
West Wittering for a splendid beach, Fishbourne for the Roman Palace,
(Bignor Roman Villa also worth a visit), Stane St. (Old Roman Rd).
Bosham is a very attractive village 2 mins by train from Chichester
and of course Goodwood which gives you Horse racing, the heritage
Motor Racing and is also a small airfield. The South Downs and the sea
all on your doorstep - in many ways...

No mention of The Novium Museum, which is an excellent place to spend
an afternoon. Free admission too.

No mention of the walls which make for a pleasant walk around and take
in the Bishop's garden. There's a cafe always close at hand as you
walk along the walls. There's also the paved cycle/walking path along
the course of the old railway from Chichester to Midhurst passing by
Lavant and West Dean.

The theatre and festivals provide better evening entertainment than
anything in Portsmouth unless as the article says you want something
loud and edgy.

Lovely city, located in an area of great natural beauty - the South
Downs immediately to the north and Chichester Harbour immediately to
the south.

However it needs a serious policy aimed at reducing car traffic and
simultaneously encouraging people to cycle much more than they do
(currently very close to zero).

It's great for cycling, flat, one or two decent cross city cycle
routes, and you can cycle to the beach past all those cars stuck in
traffic jams!

 