Let's move to Ely, Cambridgeshire: isolated yet exposed, with an
intense past

"I can imagine a rather fabulous Nordic-noir inspired TV detective
series being set there"

View towards Ely Cathedral down historic streets Ely in Cambridgeshire

Ely, Cambridgeshire: "What an astonishing spot it must have been in medieval times."



What's going for it?

It's an odd place, Ely. For a start they have an annual eel-throwing
competition on Eel Day. (That's toy eels, animal lovers.) But that
makes it all the weirder. I can imagine a rather fabulous
Nordic-noir-inspired TV detective series being set there, under the
flat, relentless Fen skies - possibly set in the 15th-century (Ely's
heyday); possibly starring Paddy Considine as a monk detective, with
issues of course. (You can have that idea for free, scriptwriters.)
It's the city's uncanny combination of isolation and exposure, brought
on by its geography and history: all by itself high up on an island of
clay, surrounded by marshes and miasmas. What an astonishing spot it
must have been in medieval times, with its fantastic cathedral newly
completed, the Ship of the Fens, and hooded clergy dominating this
isolated, lonely place of gothic arches and misericords, eel traders
and clay potters. Executive estates may now cling to the island, tour
buses come to gawp at the cathedral, and Cambridge is only 15 minutes
away on the train, but its intense past seems seeped into the stones,
haunting the place centuries on.


The case against

Its unique sense of place won't be for everyone. It remains, despite
good train links, decent local culture and community, relatively
alone, quiet and small.


Well connected?

Trains: to Cambridge (15 mins), to King's Lynn or Peterborough (35
mins) and to Norwich (an hour). Driving: 40 mins to Cambridge and then
the M11, 45 to the A1, 50 to Peterborough.


Schools

Primaries: Isle of Ely, St Mary's CofE, Highfield, St John's Community
and Lantern Community are all "good", says Ofsted. Secondaries:
Highfield is "good"; Ely College has no current inspection report.


Hang out at...

The vegan cafe, Lucyat35 - tasty and highly photogenic food. The
Drayman's Son, run by local brewery Three Blind Mice. Up the hill, in
town, the Old Fire Engine House is still a good spot.


Where to buy

Obviously I'd go for the lovely old centre, all cobbled lanes and
cottages, with the period property accoutrements of a cathedral city
in miniature. Look, also, down Fore Hill to the riverside; and on and
off the main roads out of town, like Cambridge Road, for Victorians
and Edwardians. House prices suggest the most in-demand are suburban
executive estates on the edge of town. Lots of recent new builds.
Large detacheds and townhouses, £400,000-£800,000. Detacheds and
smaller townhouses, £300,000-£400,000. Semis, £250,000-£525,000.
Terraces and cottages, £170,000-£400,000. Flats, £130,000-£230,000.
Rentals: a one-bedroom flat, £550-£750pcm; a three-bedroom house,
£800-£1,300pcm.


Bargain of the week

Three-bedroom, postwar terrace, chain free, yours for £210,000,
haart.co.uk.


From the streets

Alison Binstead 
"Our kids love the freedom of living somewhere quite rural but also
well connected. Beautiful riverside, country park, independent shops."

Jeremy Friend-Smith
"Rush hour in and out of Ely is agony."



Live in Ely? Join the debate below


Do you live in Hornsey, north London? Do you have a favourite haunt or
a pet hate? If so, email lets.move@theguardian.com by Tuesday 23
April.


Comments

Lived there for a decade between 2001-2011. Lovely place.

Absolutely no idea how you can have a flat relentless sky! I would
have thought the wonder of this area was the vastness of the heavens
and the drama that comes with it.

The sky is the main thing I remember from living nearby for 2 years.
You get a lot of it but can't remember it conveying drama.

The other thing is the wind - cuts right through you of a winter.

