What follows is the account of a journey. This
may not be immediately apparent: after all, it
is organized as a guidebook. Here and there,
our own researches are supplemented with the
memories and knowledge of others, with accounts we deem
reliable, and with the recollection of previous journeys we
took when we were younger. In a few cases, we have had
recourse to other, earlier collections.
Nonetheless, all guidebooks are founded in the travels of some specific
persons. If we have recourse to impersonal phrasings - if we speak as
though our preferences are truths - if we omit to describe exactly how
we got to some of our destinations because the explanation would not
reflect well on us - remember that there is no alternative.
We would be remiss not to note that the Lady who sponsors our work gave us a strong push in the
direction of the guidebook idea. It is her view that personal reminiscences are currently out of fashion,
and that a thick, useful book, seeking more to serve its readers than its authors, and promising the
prospect of adventures from the comfort of one's own armchair, will sell better and reflect more glory
on her good name.
Moreover, this is not a guidebook for the comfortable. We have, in
the manner of guidebooks immemorial, included recommendations of
where good inns are to be found and which meals are most enjoyable.
However, our greatest purpose is to keep the reader alive.
Our second greatest purpose is to help the
reader to keep traveling. We ourselves have
hardly ever been in mortal danger. We are,
however, familiar with another type of misfortune:
a loss of heart so severe that we want
to return home and remain there for the rest
of our days, abandoning the confusion of the
road and the perplexity of strangers' customs.
But we would not then have met one another,
these distant lands, or your good self.
Therefore we hope to offer a selection of the consolations we have accrued
here and there - evidences of absurdity, charm, eccentricity, joy,
virtue, friendship, or unlooked-for luck - that make the road worth
traveling despite all.
All other aspects of the experience are left in your hands, dear reader.
Read entirely, dip only into those portions that attract a wandering eye,
use the work for bibliomancy, or cut the book up to produce a book of
your own. You have our blessing.
If we fail - or if our advice leads to misadventure - our briniest experts in book law assure us that
we are not liable.
The Provinces
Grindark Shire sits in the shadow of a single solitary
peak: Mount Albertus, the tallest point on
the continent. Aspen trees dust the lower slopes,
but the upper part of the mountain is snow and bare rock.
Grindark Shire does of course possess a currency, but very few coins
are in circulation. Taxation tends to remove from the system what little
coin exists. Instead, residents rely heavily on a barter system. In the
towns, the diffculty is not quite as severe as in the outer villages (where,
typically, no trade in cash exists at all); and a traveler who possesses coins
will certainly find that they are accepted, probably at a rate above their
face value. It is when attempting to sell anything that one is likely to
encounter diffculties.
The Duke of Grindark Shire is the sort who will propose a walk to
those who have just come off a long journey, or even remind the butcher
of past favors in the hope of a bargain. According to rumour, the Duke's
recent trouble with the hearing of strange voices was the result of an
attempted poisoning.

Turfthorpe 
Veils of blossom. Overshadowed streets.
Meaning is a bridge built between words by the listener.
This is the site of the shrine of a daemon, which was supposedly built
long before the martyrdom of Saint Alban. It is the largest and best-preserved
of its kind; within a ring of standing stones, there is an altar,
perpetually covered with offerings. On the day we observed it, the gifts
included a scrying glass, bolt of coir, and beige tunic. People are constantly
coming to make new prayers, to light candles, or to leave behind
their request written on a small scrap of paper. While in Turfthorpe, one
of the authors received a highly prescient prophecy from a wise woman,
concerning the town he was destined to visit next. It would, however, be
inappropriate to disclose such information in the present context. 
Suffice it to say that we were satisfied with the transaction.
Turfthorpe is best known as the original home of Juliana Bondeville II,
the richest person ever to be born in Grindark Shire. All her descendants
are said to be characteristically freethinking.
Commerce 
One of the authors of the present volume here invested
in a mohair snood. She wore this purchase when first introduced to the
Duchess of Scarwell, now the patron of her literary efforts.
Residency 
Taking up residency in the town is a difficult proposition,
as the citizens do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan, we encourage
you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local repute
to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Transportation 
A mail service picks up passengers at The Hummingbird Arms.

Eagleborn 
Cloudless skies. A mill. Relaxing.
At the middle of winter, this place hosts a fair that had its origins in the
fall of the Parrigue dynasty. Participants wear paper crowns and address
one another as Lord and Lady, in anticipation of a day when their state
may be improved. The inhabitants hold incantation contests.
It is possible to approach Eagleborn from almost any direction, as the
town stands at a crossroads on the Grindark Shire Street.
Transportation 
A mail service stops twice daily without fail at Ginger and Castle.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in this place. The authors recommend seeking some day-labour work during
the planting or harvesting seasons.

Booknesford 
The Mountaintop in the Moonlight
When King Aethel defeated Jeannette Parrigue, he brought her to the
peak above Booknesford and caused her to be thrown off. After he had
departed, the townsfolk found her body and brought it to the mountain
top and cast it off a second and a third time.
Transportation 
A mail service - willing to take passengers, but often
overloaded and thus very uncomfortable - makes a stop at Sign of
the Taupe Ox.
Residency 
Finding a place to live in this place is a non-trivial challenge,
considering the constant influx of strangers requiring temporary
room and board. The likeliest solution is to seek a room some distance
from the university center, in the hopes that students will find it too
much trouble to walk from there.
Lodging 
The Riding Horse Inn can provide a change of horse
and rent coaches. The secret door lined with flaggy limestone leads to
the room of personal relief. If it is being used by a wedding party, go on
to the next town, or sleep rough; there is nowhere else worth staying.
Commerce 
This place is as good a place as any to buy a new deck of
fortune-telling cards.

Boltmere 
Overshadowed streets. Peaks.
Boltmere is best known as the birthplace of Gavin Caillot, who brokered
a valuable alliance with Floodcester Shire. The legend is retold in
poetry circulated in Boltmere.
The name of the town appears first in an epic verse 1041 summers old.
That text is now difficult to read, containing many archaic words and
phrases, but it repays study.
Commerce 
Jacob Marches can sell you a new bolt of tucuyo at a very
reasonable price.
Transportation 
A mail service stops twice daily without fail at Calf and Compasses.
Lodging 
Do not lodge in Boltmere.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in this place. We recommend assisting in cattle-droving for a farmer who
needs to move his flock.

Ravenworthy County is a well-heeled province
full of merchants. Many of the inhabitants inherited
their wealth, but a handful regard themselves
as enterprising people.
Ravenworthy County is awash in gold. Prices are higher there than
anywhere else on the continent, and shopkeepers have actually been known
to boo at coins from elsewhere. There is a regular mail service in Ravenworthy
County, which provides a way of getting from one town to the
next.

East Bellwood 
Veils of blossom. Sunlit afternoons.
One's first impression of East Bellwood is likely the roof belonging to
the Feu mansion. Yellow light pours in through the stained windows.
East Bellwood is run by the teacher guild. Though there are other 
officials in town, they have little or no influence in practice.
Commerce 
The markets in the town are superior, and people travel
from many miles around to look through the selections. In addition to
cooked foods and baked goods, there are tortoiseshell rings and clothing.
Excursions 
There are few expeditions from the center of town worth
recommending to traveling merchants.
Residency 
A person wanting to live in this place could buy up one,
or perhaps even several, of the ruined buildings, and invest in their reconstruction.
The process would not be inexpensive, but it would be
less costly than the purchase of a new house in a more thriving context.
Warning: An old woman named Godiva Viville takes bribes and
then does not even deliver on the promises that occasioned the bribery
in the first place.

Castle Becclesthwaite 
Relaxing. A mill. Balsam poplar tree.
The town is best known as the burial place of Asher Brinon, who came
to Castle Becclesthwaite fleeing charges of cheating in his hometown.
The Royal Family retains the right to quarter in Castle Becclesthwaite
at any time, without warning or compensation.
The merchant guild has a vice-like grip on the town. Happily, the demands
of the position are not as great as they might be in a town threatened
by external circumstances.
Transportation 
A mail service, irregular but sometimes willing to
take on passengers, stops at The Hummingbird Arms. If you have
more stamina than funds, and are a capable and patient driver, becoming
a mail driver is a cheap way of seeing the whole of Ravenworthy County.
Residency 
Castle Becclesthwaite suffers a shortage of affordable buildings,
and no one is allowed to build more. Outside the wall, there are
some illegal houses built, but they may soon be knocked down, since
they are considered to be eyesores.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in this place. The authors recommend joining a caravan headed for Boltmere
in exchange for guard work.

Cleavestead 
The scent of citrus. Fresh milk.
This place is best known as the home of Jonas Le Cordier, who was
said to have had a vision in this forest. All his descendants are said to be
characteristically expedient. Cleavestead is inhabited by the great-greatgreat
grandchildren of Silvanus, the ancient forest-god.
Residency 
Taking up residency in the town is a difficult proposition,
as the population do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan, we
encourage you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local repute
to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Transportation 
A mail service stops twice
daily without fail at The Stallion Inn.
Excursions 
The surrounding forests offer
many pleasant walks and beautiful glade
views.
Warning: People around here forbid
taking a seat while the lactating are standing.

Bankton 
Chilly mornings. Hot springs.
Bankton is best known as the tomb of Althalos Port, who went on to
establish better trade with Turfthorpe. Plague conditions now threaten
these alliances, as it is no longer so safe to visit this place.
The town is haunted by the spirit of Richard le Gaucher the Younger,
who saw lightning strike in these woods and took it for a good omen.
There is a very fine volume that recounts the entire affair, decorated with
silver stamping. All his descendants are said to be characteristically wellbred.
Commerce 
The markets in Bankton are superior, and people travel
from many miles around to look through the selections. In addition to
cooked foods and baked goods, there are jasper earrings and clothing.
Residency 
So many people of means live in this place that it is not an
easy thing to find housing suitable to a smaller budget. If one intends to
live as a steward, one may find a live-in post that will supply a room in a
townhouse.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in the town. We suggest joining a caravan headed for Eagleborn in exchange
for guard work.

The defining feature of Broadhowe is its weather:
at all times warm, often hot, with pale blue skies
that appear as a glat dome overhead. Rain comes
rarely and usually only by night. Different fruits grow: citruses,
olives, bilberries, a larger style of strawberry. There is
lavender in the fields. The cheerful aspect of the area may be
due to these benefits.
Currency in Broadhowe is gold. On one side is the head of King Aethel
and on the other an embossed camel. The top-value coin is hexagonal.
Broadhowe is held by a Ducal Personage. They hear audiences from a
platinum throne; they are always in personal attendance when it is time
for a charitable disbursement from the ducal coffers.

Midcombe 
Cloudless skies. Austere buildings.
Midcombe is spread at the base of a great hill. The streets are cramped
and narrow, especially in the older parts of town.
The town is haunted by the spirit of Rowan Goulaffre Junior, who
went on to establish better trade with Turfthorpe. All his descendants
are said to be characteristically unchanging. Whenever someone tries to
dispel his spirit, he sets something on fire.
Dining 
A thorough exploration of Midcombe requires trying the local
specialty, dried stallion steamed and served with a toasted buckwheat
loaf. Local behaviour forbids speaking during a meal, at the risk of insulting
the chef. Visitors have been run out of town for offending against
custom.
Transportation 
It is advisable to change horses at The Almond Heather.
The sun shines through the holes in the roof, dappling the floor.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a bakery, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Midcombe. The rooms within are cozy and low-ceilinged.

Cheriton Magna 
Sunlit mornings. Dry afternoons.
Cheriton Magna was inhabited by a people on the move who had been
cast out of other lands. Now and then, the town hosts a festival that
had its origins in the year that Wihtred gave the care of churches to the
bishops. The citizens perform puppet shows. The population elect
jurors to select the person best at grammatical study.
One of us tried to replicate this dish later at home, but it came out tough.
Thus preventing the kings from either controlling their income or appointing any priests.
Transportation 
Sign of the Silver Mule can provide a change of
horse and rent coaches. The tall windows are particularly handsome.
Warning: People around here forbid telling others about your
God or gods or local spirits. Townsfolk have been known to throw shoes
at anyone who offends against custom.

Stagby 
A mill. Unchanging evenings. Steep walkways.
This place is run by the tactless miner called Matilde Taillebois, recently
elected as mayor. The leader's work includes responsibility for
setting tax amounts.
At sundown on winter solstice, this place hosts a celebration. The inhabitants
engage in competitive singing. The people perform mime celebrating
the time of year.
Commerce 
It is possible to buy a new brass ventile ballgown in Stagby,
but thanks to the difficulty of importing anything, and the wealth of
the inhabitants, the price will be unreasonably high. The traveler able
to bring along some outside goods to the town might find a ready and
eager market.
Dining 
Try dining at Ostrich and Compasses, notable for its
intestines pie.
Making this dish is not terribly difficult, as long as you can get the ingredients; that is the difficult part.

Bannermill 
Bath buildings. Warm afternoons.
Salt grows in many size, but always the same shape.
Much of the wealth of this place comes from the platinum mines nearby.
Some of the ore is processed and used immediately, and some shipped
elsewhere. Jewelers prosper. To go safely underground requires a wellmade
hat and a lantern.
Bannermill is run by a man named Rafe l'Estourmi II, recently elected
as selectman. Money finds its way to the very poor, assuming, of course,
that they have not given offence to those in power.
Residency 
Those wishing to take up residency in Bannermill will
need to produce a document from the head of their own town, affirming
that they have never been accused of assault with weapon with intent
to rob.
Commerce 
There's no better place than the town to buy a new chemise.

Blissthicke Shire is thickly forested from one
side to the other with dark bosse. In exploring
Blissthicke Shire, you are likely to find yourself
relatively unaccompanied: travelers are few and roads are often
badly maintained.
The Ducal Personage of Blissthicke Shire is the sort who will give a dinner
party, then count up the half-radishes left over at the end, or even
drive nails into their shoes to make them last longer. The Ducal Personage's
subjects take a lively interest in the ducal house, family, and lifestyle.
It is always possible to get a good conversation going in Blissthicke Shire
by asking for the latest news in that quarter, and if there is no news, people
will speculatively invent answers.

Castle Shadowhythe 
Produce markets. Austere buildings.
Castle Shadowhythe needs less introduction than any other place named
in this work. Its inhabitants have been at pains to spread the word about
Castle Shadowhythe as though it were religion. Consequently, it is everywhere
possible to encounter pamphlets entreating visitors to try out its
pleasant halls; drawings of the town; maps pointing out its most trivial
localities; and boasts about how Castle Shadowhythe appeared at the last
census. Travelers who have never themselves been to the town may be
heard at the tables of an inn fifty leagues distant arguing over the colour of
the roof tiles. The present authors and the entire situation sufficiently
nauseating that they do not choose to contribute to this place's legend.
Warning: Adam de Savage is an unbeliever. In publishing the
fact, we only make known what is common gossip all over town.
The authors feel confident in mentioning this matter now that they have put Castle Shadowhythe
behind them and do not expect to return. It is published in the hope that the authorities may take up
the culprit (though, to be honest, we do not go so far as to expect that happy outcome).

Lower Fugglehithe 
Sunlight Filtered Through Rustling Leaves
The town is built at one end of a large and ancient forest. The buildings
are small, mean, and close together, and the alleys are so narrow that
it is difficult to avoid walking in rivers of trash and effluent.
Beatrix Wadard haunts this place. One may sometimes hear her ghost
making the call of rat. The spirit is in search of a single sympathetic person
who will listen to her woes.
Commerce 
There's no better place than the town to buy a new supply
of light bosse wood.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Tarragon and Blade
in the town square. The opening lined with monzonite leads to the
innermost chambers of the building. We recommend against its rival,
Mango-Ginger and Saw. When staying there, it is difficult to escape
broken windows.
Dining 
The authors recommend dining at Sign of the Aerosol Mare, 
notable for its kidney seethed with dried grasses.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in Lower Fugglehithe. We recommend hunting or gathering in the nearby
woods to make up your supper.

Sheriff's Kesthorpe 
Angular buildings. Fresh milk.
From time to time, this place hosts a festival. Big beige tents go up in
the town square, with flags on the tentpoles. The inhabitants elect jurors
to select the person best at prayer.
One of the authors likes this dish much more than the other.
So many soldiers reside in the town that they have come to view the residents
as another form of enemy, and for outsiders they have no respect
at all. In the event one happens on a brawl in progress, it is best to retreat
and go another way rather than to become involved in the scuffle, even
if the participants initially appear weak and unlikely to put up a fight.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from Sheriff's Kesthorpe
and the population are not generally in the habit of offering transport
to strangers, but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local
carter to take you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.
Warning: The mine-foreman named Jacob Darell the Older takes
bribes and then does not even deliver on the promises that occasioned
the bribery in the first place. The rest of the people are infinitely more
pleasant and do not deserve to live with such a person in their midst.

Finchkirk 
New spring leaves. Chilly evenings.
Every literate person knows the name of the town, made famous by
the Finchkirk Annals II: a work of history embroidered with fiction
and romance, which tells of the founding fathers of this town and their
descendants for three generations. The text makes repeated reference
to the banners of Finchkirk. Perhaps in honour of that tradition, this
place now keeps itself constantly decorated in banners hand-made by
the citizens.
One of the authors hesitates to include this detail, but was overborne by the argument of the other
author that strangers deserve to be warned against unpleasant experiences. One of the great pleasures
of traveling is discovering "the minds and the cities of men," as the poet has it (though the poet might
have mentioned women as well). But we delude ourselves if we do not admit that some people are
unpleasant to meet.
On the main street, one may find a small sign warning against handouts
to beggars.
Residency 
Taking up residency in Finchkirk is a difficult proposition,
as the citizens do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan,
we encourage you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local
repute to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Commerce 
Berinon Culai can sell you a new supply of york gum
wood for a couple of thin silver coins much the worse for coin-clipping.
Excursions 
If one asks the locals to recommend a worthy sight, they
will inevitably point out a shrine to the daemon of memory, which, however,
is unimpressive in comparison with similar structures in other towns.
The building could benefit from a new roof.
Warning: Be wary of walking past a funeral cortege without removing
your hat. Visitors have been run out of town for offending
against custom.

Birchhampton County is an impoverished province
sparsely inhabited by mushroom farmers. The
people have a hard enough life that they tend to
resent having to attend to the requests of other people. Even
the children have embittered expressions from a young age.
Birchhampton County is well-traveled, and the amenities that exist for
others will also speed you on your way.
The present Duke is four years old, and the work of the duchy is done
by his mother and by an enterprising tutor. The Duke's doctor has spoken
strictly to him about spending too much time outside the Ducal
Palace, considering that plague has taken off many of the inhabitants of
the province.

Hesslechester 
Sunlight Filtered Through Rustling Leaves
The name of Hesslechester appears first
in an epic verse fifty generations old. Well-advised
travelers will purchase suitable examples
from d'Armentieres Sons for a couple
of thin silver coins much the worse for coinclipping.
Hesslechester is run by a man named John the Amino, 
recently elected as mayor. Few
legal traditions exist to define or constrain the
leadership role.
Transportation 
It is advisable to change
horses at Snail and Sarsaparilla. The
sun shines through the holes in the roof, dappling
the floor.
Commerce 
There's no better place than the town to buy a new cartload
of sandstone blocks.
Excursions 
If the weather is seasonable, the orchards around this
place provide many pleasant walks among the olives.

Tweedmore 
Dank streets. Gloomy afternoons.
The name of Tweedmore appears first in a cycle of short poems nine
centuries old. The text runs to five volumes, and purchasers at Esteney
Sisters will be given a complimentary case in which to carry it away.
The town is built at one end of a large and ancient forest. The streets
are cramped and narrow, especially in the older parts of town.
Excursions 
The most beautiful prospect of Tweedmore is that afforded
by looking over one's shoulder on departure.
Lodging 
Those accustomed to a door that locks may find themselves
disappointed in Tweedmore, which affords only a tiny thatched building
under the name of Fenugreek and Sponge. We were once served
slug meat that was 156/164 gristle.
Transportation 
It is advisable to change horses at The Pigeon Inn.
It is a shabby building thanks to the poverty of the town.

Brewood 
Cramped alleys. The scent of citrus.
This place is run by a woman named Elanor Torteval, recently elected
as selectman. The leader's work principally consists of a great deal of
charitable organization on behalf of the needy citizens of the town.
Brewood was never founded, but has been inhabited continuously from
the Time of Giants on. Brewood is built in the ruins and across the floor
plans of a past empire, one that withdrew its soldiers long ago.
Commerce 
Oswitha Boislevesque can sell you a new bolt of terrycloth
for a few coppers.
Dining 
We recommend dining at Mule and Woodruff, which
serves cheap food.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Sign of the Cleric Stallion 
inside the town. The passageway lined with magnesian limestone
leads to a private storeroom. If it is full, Rat and Alligator Pepper 
is a bit noisier but also acceptable.
Warning: Elanor d'Ecouis takes bribes and then does not even
deliver on the promises that occasioned the bribery in the first place. The
rest of the citizens are a set of hypocrites, but at least pretend to be better.

Bearcaster Shire is a well-heeled province full
of silk growers. Many of the inhabitants inherited
their wealth, but a handful regard themselves
as enterprising people.
Currency in Bearcaster Shire is silver. On one side is the head of the
Ducal Personage and on the other an incised hummingbird.
Warning: Visitors to Bearcaster Shire, especially those approaching
from Blissthicke Shire, are advised to be on the lookout for overpriced
goods and hostelries. Various shady shopkeepers may also try to
sell false amulets, useless philtres, and ineffective prescriptions against
an excess of sebum.

Ravencester Way 
Relaxation. Veils of blossom.
The road to Ravencester Way passes through orchards of tangerines,
which are especially lovely in the spring, when covered with flowers.
Where the main streets meet, one may find a small sign warning against
handouts to beggars.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Nightingale and Parsley
in the jewelry district. Emerald light pours in through the stained
windows. Should the innkeeper request payment in copper coin rather
than silver, custom holds that she is a were-stallion. In this eventuality,
sprinkle the threshold of the room with basil and do not cross the line
of protection until moonset. On the topic of travel preparations, it is
also wisest not to venture into this area without a portable sunshade, especially
if one comes from more northerly climes. A traveler's eyes may
be sensitive to glare and their skin may grow red with excessive exposure.
Residency 
Taking up residency in this place is a
difficult proposition, as the citizens do not welcome
immigrants. Marrying one of the citizens may be the
easiest method of obtaining general acceptance.

Bredark 
Birdsong - New spring leaves.
Bredark was never founded, but has been inhabited
continuously from the Time of Giants on. Another,
grander people occupied this land once upon
a time, and their buildings and towers can still be
seen shattered across the landscape.
The credulity of the inhabitants of the town renders their conversation particularly charming, if surprising,
to the visitor.
The priest guild has a vice-like grip on Bredark. The leader's work includes
responsibility for setting quarantines and choosing the town's response
to the plague. It is grim and thankless work.
Residency 
Taking up residency in this place is a difficult proposition,
as the inhabitants do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan, we
encourage you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local repute
to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Lodging 
The inn with the most spacious rooms is The Badger
Arms. Beware the execrable cromorne player.

Crenchcastle Manor 
Dappled Sunlight on the Ground
Crenchcastle Manor is built at one end of a large and ancient forest.
The streets radiate from a central plaza.
Seraphina Addinell haunts Crenchcastle Manor. One may sometimes
hear her ghost making the call of mare. The spirit is in search of a single
sympathetic person who will listen to her woes.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a silo for rye, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Crenchcastle Manor. The building is not considered
worthy of any exceptional decoration, but the structure is sturdy
and the material good.
Warning: Polite manners require waving a bundle of bay leaf in
the other person's direction. Visitors have been run out of town for offending
against custom.

Sheriff's Tweedchester 
Cloudless skies. Cow dung in the streets.
Doran Couci the Older founded Sheriff's Tweedchester on hearing the
call of a pigeon under a shaft of moonlight in a glade. This was construed
to be an omen of good luck.
The town is run by a traveler named Tybalt Vauville, recently elected
as selectman. Pastoral care requires organizing the wealthier citizens of
the town and persuading them to contribute to the care of others.
Excursions 
We recommend against any particular expeditions from
Sheriff's Tweedchester.
Commerce 
The market stalls here sell not only new-made things, but
artifacts from a long time ago: handsome black willow furniture carved
with figures, tapestries representing that great destruction among the
fowls, and weapons that are said to have been forged during the bloody
rain when milk and butter were turned to blood.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer flagons of malty farro beer. If
an excess of sputum should follow, sprinkle the threshold of the room
with sassafras and send for a doctor.

Stancaster 
Quiet chaos. Heavy fruit.
This place was ravaged not very long ago by floods, and it has not been
entirely rebuilt. Fallen walls impede progress.
Stancaster was inhabited by a people on the move who had been cast
out of other lands.
This event is recorded in several annals and is not purely the invention of the town.
At least one of the authors of this work found herself baked on a surprisingly light quantity of this
substance. Be wary.
When there, do be sure to greet the toll-collector called Cedric d'Orbec,
a particular friend to the authors of the present work.
Transportation 
It is advisable to change horses at Thyme and Compasses. 
The entrance painted crimson leads to the innermost chambers
of the building.
Residency 
Taking up residency in the town is a difficult proposition,
as the townsfolk do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan, we
encourage you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local repute
to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Sign of the Exasperated Hound 
tucked among the biggest townhouses. The floors are
tiled with marble. The only drawback is that occasionally a whole caravan
will rent out the inn, making it unavailable to other guests. If this
should happen, The Lark Inn is an acceptable alternative.

Brackburton Duchy is an impoverished province
sparsely inhabited by mushroom farmers. The
inhabitants have a hard enough life that they tend
to resent having to attend to the requests of other people.
Even the children look ill-disposed towards visitors from a
young age.
Warning: Visitors to Brackburton Duchy, especially those approaching
from Broadhowe, are advised to be on the lookout for an illness
characterized by a case of cold sweats.
The Ducal Personage of Brackburton Duchy is the sort who will swear
blasphemously in front of believers, or even call by name to a passer-by
with whom they are not familiar. Some say the Ducal Personage will die
within the year.

Cherryfoot 
Aroma of bread. Gulls. Drizzly mornings.
It is possible to approach Cherryfoot from almost any direction, as the
town stands at a crossroads on the Brackburton Duchy Street.
Cherryfoot was ravaged not very long ago by floods, and it has not been
entirely rebuilt. Shards of broken glass lie on the streets.
Residency 
A person wanting to live in this place could buy up one,
or perhaps even several, of the ruined buildings, and invest in their reconstruction.
The process would not be inexpensive, but it would be
less costly than the purchase of a new house in a more thriving context.
Excursions 
From Cherryfoot, one
may take an enjoyable walk out along
the cliffs overlooking the sea. At
no very great distance, there is a preserved
skeleton of a Leviathan.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed
may find The Modernized Bluebell not far from the tide line.
Khaki light pours in through the stained windows. Should the
innkeeper request payment in copper coin rather than silver, custom
holds that she is a were-dog. In this eventuality, sprinkle the threshold of
the room with mace and do not cross the line of protection until moonset.
It is wisest to not venture to these parts at all without a sack of salt
to counteract its foul humours.
Warning: The mercenary called Maria de Coucy is not to be trusted
with mending a new tunic. In publishing the fact, we only make known
what is common gossip all over town.

Cheesemouth 
The scent of the sea. Gulls.
The road to Cheesemouth passes through orchards of apricots, which
in late summer are handsomely laden with fruit, and not always vigorously
guarded.
The town is run by the smooth sailor called Terrin the Proportionate,
recently elected as selectman. This work principally consists of a
great deal of charitable organization on behalf of the needy citizens of
the town.
Residency 
Cheesemouth avidly seeks new residents to fill in some of
the empty buildings. If you are inclined to move here, you will find your
neighbours eager to help you settle in.
Commerce 
The only books available for purchase in this place will
be soggy, badly-made pamphlets containing scurrilous stories. Printing
is not used here for any sort of permanent record, only for the dissemination
of gossip and political opinion.
Here, as elsewhere, we report only those local sayings and legends were reported to us by at least three
witnesses.
The reader is recommended to review the foreword of this volume in which are laid out the liability
of the authors and publishers in the event that any of the enclosed information results in the arrest or
execution of said reader.

Marefettle 
Foggy afternoons. Fresh milk.
The road from Brewood to Marefettle is in poor repair, making it a
struggle to travel. Some of the stones are overturned as though by a supernatural
force.
Ryia Esteney founded Marefettle on hearing the call of a dun mare
defecating there. This was construed to be an omen of good luck.
Lodging 
The inn with the most spacious beds is The Lacklustre Goat. 
Beware bedbugs.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from this place and the
townsfolk are not generally in the habit of offering transport to strangers,
but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local carter to take
you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.
Warning: If you witness someone singing or dancing who does
not have the skill, try holding your eyes closed for a moment to express
the acceptance of a lower-status position.

Minehampton County lies to the distant northeast.
The people there have their own accents and
dialect, and their speech is offen difficult to understand.
Minehampton County pays its debts in brass. On one side is the head
of King Escwulf and on the other an embossed rat.

The current ruler is an old woman whose attention is now largely directed
to the fireside. In her day, she had a fierce, reforming spirit, but
gradually her powers and her zeal have faded, and she now scarcely interferes
in the daily life of her subjects. The Duchess' doctor has spoken
strictly to her about spending too much time outside the Ducal Palace,
considering that plague has taken off many of the inhabitants of the
province.

Horsecester-under-Curse 
Cow dung in the streets. Bees.
This place is built at the top of a great hill, making it more difficult to
attack. The streets are cramped and narrow, especially in the older parts
of town.
Horsecester-under-Curse has been partially destroyed, leaving burned
walls and devastated farmland. Fallen walls impede progress.
Lodging 
The best place to keep quarantine
is The Taupe Tentpeg. Once we were
served flagons of malty buckwheat beer; and
also enjoyed wine made from spinach. We
were less satisfied with lamb intestines in a
pastry.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer ox
liver sausage. If an excess of pleural fluid should follow, sprinkle the
threshold of the room with dill and wait for the symptoms to pass.
Excursions 
If one asks the locals to recommend a worthy sight, they
will inevitably point out a church to the King under the Mountain,
which, however, is unimpressive in comparison with similar structures
in other towns. The corridor lined with beer stone leads to the room of
personal relief.
Little more exists above ground than a shack protecting the staircase downward.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from Horsecester-under-Curse 
and the citizens are not generally in the habit of offering transport
to strangers, but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local
carter to take you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.

Lower Peterworthy 
Staircase for streets. Cloudless skies.
Lower Peterworthy was inhabited by a people on the move who had
been cast out of other lands.
The town is haunted by the spirit of Leo Boivin the Older, who defeated
a two-headed boar by laying a cunning trap where the center of
town is now. The legend is retold in stories circulated in the town. One
may sometimes hear his ghost singing when no one appears to be present.
Lodging 
There are few public houses or inns of any kind in this
place, but at the middle of the cool season The Beige Castle may be
found to be open, under the proprietorship of Richard du Bec.

Dupminster Widdershins 
Silence. Steep walkways.
Dupminster Widdershins is mentioned in Minehampton County Chronicle
I around the time of the year Saint Pierre built a monastery, but the
entry is brief, and little information from that period survives locally.
Nonetheless, the inhabitants are fond of mentioning their famous connection.
This place has been partially destroyed, leaving burned walls and 
devastated farmland. Shards of broken glass lie on the streets.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from the town and the
townsfolk are not generally in the habit of offering transport to strangers,
but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local carter to take
you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.
Commerce 
There's no better place than this place to buy a new cartload
of serpentinite tiles.

Stonekirk Moor 
Veils of blossom. Heavy fruit.
The ascent from Stancaster to Stonekirk Moor is barely usable. A cart
of ore has difficulty even passing over such ground.
Stonekirk Moor was founded before the year the blessed Abbot Benedict
shone in this world.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer flagons of dark flaxseed beer. If
an excess of lymph should follow, tie a strip of hodden cloth around the
doorknob of your room and pray for a swift death.
Commerce 
Here you might buy a bolt of jute edged with knots or
deck of fortune-telling cards. While in the town, one of the authors received
a highly prescient prophecy from a wise woman, concerning the
development of his literary skills. It would, however, be inappropriate
to disclose such information in the present context. Suffice it to say that
we were satisfied with the transaction.

Eagleberg County is a sandy desert, and the sand
is mingled with a certain quantity of gunmetal dust.
There are also, burrowing in this ground, giant
stink bugs each the size of a goat. When these burrow, they
throw up small hills of the dust, which the inhabitants then
collect, this being less trouble than mining.
Warning: Visitors to Eagleberg County, especially
those approaching from Bearcaster Shire,
must go prepared. The authors recommend that
you never be without simple protections, even when
passing through areas generally considered safe.
Eagleberg County pays its debts in brass. On one
side is the head of the Duke and on the other an incised
cat.

Rothing 
Scholars. Dry evenings.
The Library of Rothing is the greatest in the kingdom,
and is said to contain over 200,000 works. The
secret annals of the Parrigues are stored here, but
they are kept under lock by the head librarian and no one is allowed to
consult them except with a royal permission. There are also some very
fine illuminated manuscripts in honour of the One God.
The road from Horsecester-under-Curse to Rothing is barely usable.
Once there were stairs and ramps to help negotiate the steeper passages,
but they have grown slick with wear and are now a danger in themselves.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer beer made from burdock. Accompany
the dish with plenty of water in order to avoid a subsequent
illness.
Residency 
Those wishing to take up residency in the town will need
to produce a document from the head of their own town, affirming that
they have never been accused of keeping a disorderly house.
Lodging 
The Uncapped Ox is an old and wealthy establishment,
well worth the stay for visitors who can stand the expense. Carved gargoyles
in the shape of Camels guard the eaves. One is guaranteed a sturdy
roof without leaks.
Commerce 
It is possible to buy a new bolt of madras in this place,
but thanks to the difficulty of importing anything, and the wealth of
the inhabitants, the price will be unreasonably high. The traveler able
to bring along some outside goods to Rothing might find a ready and
eager market.

Harecastle 
Steep walkways. Houses half underground.
Harecastle is built at the top of a great hill, making it more difficult to
attack. The houses are set well apart from one another, as though even
the buildings prefer to keep a distance from their neighbours. Pedestrians
enjoy long vistas of well-ordered buildings on either side of a straight
street.
The name of the town appears first in a cycle of short poems eighteen
centuries old. The town itself is likely to be able to sell a copy of this
work to anyone curious enough to pursue it.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in the prison, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Harecastle. The trapdoor painted white leads
to the innermost chambers of the building.
Lodging 
The Whirlwind Dahlia is a richly furnished establishment,
well worth the stay for outsiders who can stand the expense.
One can rely upon a bedroom devoid of other occupants.
Commerce 
Here you might buy a heart-size peridot or ballgown.
Warning: Should you chance to walk in on someone urinating or
defecating, either out of doors or inside a building, try offering a ritual
compliment on the other's powers of memory.

Waltberry End 
Warm afternoons. Cow dung in the streets.
At the apex of the town, one may find a small sign entreating the gods
for good weather. The weather is usually bright in this place, which
makes any sudden changes all the more notable.
This place is built at the top of a great hill, making it more difficult to
attack. The streets are cramped and narrow, especially in the older parts
of town. It can be a challenge to avoid having scraps thrown on one's
head from above.
Dining 
We suggest dining at Calf and Cubeb, which serves packaged
food.
Residency 
It is discouraged for those recently released from prison
to move to this place.
Warning: Couth behaviour forbids giving a greeting to girls before
the age of childbearing. Townsfolk have been known to throw shoes at
anyone who offends against custom.

Colyborough 
Sunlit evenings. Austere buildings.
Colyborough is best known as the tomb of Jonas Digby, a missionary
who was supposed to have been born on this site among the hills. All
his descendants are said to be characteristically forgiving.
One's first impression of Colyborough is likely the carved cupola belonging
to the Lacklustre mansion. The black shutters are striking.
Dining 
A thorough exploration of the town requires trying the local
specialty, aromatic flagons of malty wheat beer. Accompany the dish
with plenty of water in order to avoid a subsequent illness.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Mare and Hemp where
the main streets meet. Carved gargoyles in the shape of Lambs guard
the eaves. Once we were served ox soup; and also enjoyed flagons of
hop-heavy amaranth beer. We were less satisfied with flagons of dark
buckwheat beer.

Pilgrim's Hogberry 
The scent of citrus. Dry mornings.
The name of this place appears first in a verse cycle eighteen centuries
old. One of the authors is in the happy position of owning the whole
work in three volumes, autographed in silver ink.
The town is haunted by the spirit of Alys the Defenseless, later the
governor of all of Eagleberg County. There is a very fine volume that recounts
the entire affair, decorated with gold stamping. One may sometimes
hear her ghost howling at the moon.
Commerce 
This place is as good a place as any to buy a new cut amber.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from Pilgrim's Hogberry
and the people are not generally in the habit of offering transport to
strangers, but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local carter
to take you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.

Beetlewick Duchy follows the coastline of the
river Edle all the way from its origins in the foothills,
along several lakes, and eventually to the sea.
The Duke of Beetlewick Duchy is hale and energetic. His wife has
borne him six sons, and he dresses them in identical uniforms. They
recite the names of past dukes, this being the sort of history the Duke
considers interesting. What the Duke's subjects think, they carefully do
not say.
There is a regular mail service in Beetlewick Duchy, which provides a
way of getting from one town to the next.

Inglecaster-under-Curse 
The Roar of Falling Water
The name of Inglecaster-under-Curse appears first in a cycle of short
poems 1979 summers old. The text runs to three volumes, and purchasers
at Neufmarche Sisters will be given a complimentary case in which
to carry it away.
Inglecaster-under-Curse is inhabited by the great-great-great grandchildren
of Sequana, the river goddess.
Transportation 
A mail service - willing to take passengers, but often
overloaded and thus very uncomfortable - makes a stop at 
The Vegetative Mouse.
Residency 
Before moving to this place, consider whether you would
be well placed there, and whether you would be able to maintain the
behaviour expected of you. It used to be that people around here offered
carthorse to their gods in supplication. If you find that you are being
stared at silently by a large number of the company, try briefly tapping
your eye to express apology.

Daxbridge 
Cold Afternoons
Daxbridge was founded 511 years ago by a
man named Cassius de Recusson. It's said
that in its earlier days, Daxbridge enjoyed
substantial influence and prosperity, but of
course that time is now long past.
The leader of Daxbridge is the High Priestess of Saint Isaac. 
The leader's work includes
giving attention, where possible, to trashed
people.
Commerce 
Richard Cumin can sell you a
new axe for a silver coin.
Warning: In the town, a gift of beige thistle is used to indicate that
the giver has discovered something new about themselves which they
wish to communicate to the recipient.

Tangleëmp 
Five Bridges
King Caedwalla went to profess belief in the one God before the leader
of the Church, but while he was still in his baptismal garments, he died
and was buried in the Cathedral here.
Tangleëmp was ravaged not very long ago by a terrible storm, and it
has not been entirely rebuilt. Broken roofbeams impede progress.
Commerce 
Farfelee Fitton can sell you a new cartload of ketton stone
rubble at a very reasonable price.
Transportation 
A mail service, irregular but sometimes willing to take
on passengers, stops at Lark and Hemp. The fare is a few coppers.
Residency 
Before moving to the town, consider whether you would
be well placed there. People around here forbid paying respects to the
nymph of Edle. Visitors have been run out of town for offending against
custom.

Rughithe 
Waterfowl
Rughithe was never founded, but has been inhabited continuously
from the Time of Giants on. Fragments of old buildings and damaged
archways have been built into the walls and streets of this place.
The governance of the university is also to a large extent the leadership
of the town: at least, no one would make any significant decision without
appropriate consultation. Though there are other officials in town,
they have little or no influence in practice.
Here, as elsewhere, we report only those local sayings and legends were reported to us by at least three
witnesses.
Dining 
A dedicated traveler will not leave without trying the local
specialty, sweet wedge-shaped buns soaked in oregano liquor. If an excess
of bile should follow, sprinkle the threshold of the room with sage
and wait for the symptoms to pass.
Transportation 
A mail service picks up passengers at Garlic Chives and Tentpeg.
Warning: In Rughithe, a gift of pear-size cakes is used to indicate
romantic interest.

Weyside Shire houses a few well-to-do abbesses alongside
a very significant number of farmers. The inhabitants
know that things could be still worse.
Weyside Shire is well-traveled, and the amenities that exist for others
will also speed you on your way.
Warning: Visitors to Weyside Shire, especially those approaching
from Brackburton Duchy, are advised to be on the lookout for an illness
characterized by thickening of the fingernails.

Blisschurch 
Curious townsfolk. Unified people.
The approach to Blisschurch runs along the edge of Pork for a long
while. Three bathing buildings surround the hot springs of the town.
The warm baths are a welcome relief if one is travel-sore, though the
aroma of the hot springs may be off-putting.
Blisschurch was ravaged not very long ago by a terrible storm, and it
has not been entirely rebuilt.
Transportation 
Transport up the river may be had easily at the docks,
and is slower but more agreeable than travel by road.

Sprinfand Convent 
Cloudless Skies
Sprinfand Convent became the chief
city of Weyside Shire after the previous
capital was leveled by an earthquake.
The town sits at the top of a waterfall
on the river Pork. The streets radiate
from a central plaza. Pedestrians
enjoy long vistas of well-ordered
buildings on either side of a straight
street.
Dining 
The authors recommend dining at Sign of the Eggshell Trout, 
notable for its flagons of light flaxseed beer.
Lodging 
The inns in town are now largely shut down or converted
into makeshift hospitals, but wise visitors would hesitate to linger overnight
in such a pestilential spot anyway.
Excursions 
If one asks the locals to recommend a worthy sight, they
will inevitably point out a shrine, which, however, is unimpressive in
comparison with similar structures in other towns. The rooms within
are cozy and low-ceilinged.

Holyminster Arms 
The Roar of the Waterfall
Raw eggs poison people and bind dough.
Tristan the Bounding founded Holyminster Arms on seeing a cream
mare where the center of town is now. After its foundation, it languished
for several generations as nothing more than a small village, but eventually
accrued inhabitants when they built a new road into the town.
Holyminster Arms is run by Jed De Berchelai, recently elected as mayor.
Though there are other officials in town, they have little or no influence
in practice.
Excursions 
There is a long stone stair from the city that descends
along the waterfall to the pool at its base. The views here are very beautiful,
but the stairs are wet and it is tiring to return, so one should be
prepared. Returns to the town via a wagon and a longer road may sometimes
be arranged for a bag of coppers.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer liqueur made from mongongos.
People around here insist on leaving at least two bites behind to indicate
that one has been sated. Failure to observe this custom may result in
the innkeeper providing additional servings with or without the guest's
permission.

Wootton Stanhithe 
Banktop Bridges
So many soldiers reside in the town that they have come to view the
residents as another form of enemy, and for outsiders they have no respect
at all. Local authorities cannot be depended upon to break up a
fight. Well-advised visitors will do their best to avoid any points of contention.
Though we write as one, the authors
of this volume did not always
travel together. Some entries are
based upon the experience only of
one of us, which may explain why certain
sections focus more on food than
on the history. It was in this place that
we first encountered one another, outside
the house of Edwina Ballard, on
a day in the hot season.
One would like to say that we sized each other up at once, but this is
not quite so: one of us was instantly struck and perceived a connection.
The other meanwhile was making notes on this strange tactless person,
intending to give him a starring role in her narrative about the town.
Residency 
Before moving to Wootton Stanhithe, consider whether
you would be well placed there, and whether you would be able to maintain
the behaviour expected of you. An unusual perfume, the opiumdream
odour of patchouli gradually drying down to amber, is reserved
for religious offerings or to be worn by priests.
Commerce 
There's no better place than the town to buy a new pot
of inks.

Briarden County was settled by monotheists driven
out of other provinces. Every town contains at
least a chapel, and often a more elabourate construction.
In exploring Briarden County, you are likely to find yourself relatively
unaccompanied: travelers are few and roads are often badly maintained.
There is at the moment no successor named for the Duke, who is the
last of his line. He is upwards of fifty, and nothing precludes him from
marrying and fathering a child even at this stage. But despite the urgency
of his advisors, he doesn't seem to show any inclination to do this. What
the Duke's subjects think, they carefully do not say.

Sheriff's Manninfield 
The odour of citrus. Hopeful citizens.
Long ago King Ethelwulf came to Sheriff's Manninfield with the design
to assassinate King Edwin, but the assassin killed the thane Lilla instead.
That same night, a daughter was born to Edwin, whose name
was Eanfleda. Then the king swore that he would devote his daughter
to God, if he would procure at the hand of God the ability to destroy
his enemy who had sent the assassin to him. He then advanced against
Ethelwulf's army, felled on the spot five kings, and slew many of their
men. This year Eanfleda, the daughter of King Edwin, was brought into
the church.
Sheriff's Manninfield is best known as the original home of Adam Meri the Older, 
later the governor of all of Briarden County. All his descendants
are said to be characteristically articulate.
Excursions 
If one asks the locals to recommend a worthy sight, they
will inevitably point out a bookshop; and indeed there is some justice in
their pride.
Residency 
If you are thinking of dwelling in the town, remember
that you may find it isolated. If you are a frequent traveler - as we suppose
most of those reading this book must be - then you may have little
experience of places so unchanging.

Elderforke 
Cloudless skies. Thick flaggy limestone walls.
The name of this place appears first in a verse cycle 659 summers old.
The text runs to four volumes, and purchasers at Halacre Sons will be
given a complimentary case in which to carry it away.
Elderforke was founded hundreds of years ago by Julia Laci. Little can
now be recalled about the early days when the town was new.
Dining 
One cannot say one has truly enjoyed the place without trying
the local specialty, simple liqueur made from imported anise. Polite
behaviour forbids the application of any utensil not made from steel.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Chicken and Angelica
at the top of a flight of stone steps. The rooms within are cozy and
low-ceilinged.
Warning: In the town, a gift of U-shaped cakes indicates "faithfulness."

Brackirk-on-Sea
Sunlit mornings. Cloudless skies.
Elanor Le Sueur haunts this place. Whenever someone tries to dispel
her spirit, she pops up on the other side of town. One may sometimes
see her ghost passing by wearing an old-fashioned codpiece.
The town was ravaged not very long ago by a terrible storm, and it has
not been entirely rebuilt. Broken roofbeams lie on the streets.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from Brackirk-on-Sea and
the population are not generally in the habit of offering transport to
strangers. Your best hope will be to persuade a local miner to take you
some distance towards the next stop on your journey.
Residency 
If you are thinking of dwelling in the town, remember
that you may find it isolated. If you are a frequent traveler - as we suppose
most of those reading this book must be - then you may have little
experience of places so unchanging.
Dining 
We recommend trying the local specialty, pungent flagons
of light bulgur beer. If an excess of lymph should follow, crush a handful
of stink bugs and rub the paste on your eye and pray for a swift death.
Commerce 
This place is a good place to buy a new volume of advice
for merchants, decorated with gold stamping.

Bookfield 
Hopeful people. Curious townsfolk.
The name of this place appears first in cavatinas forty-nine generations
old. We suggest that you purchase suitable examples from Baignard Brothers
for a sack of new-minted silvers.
Bookfield is built at the top of a great hill, making it more difficult to
attack. The buildings huddle together in the small space and cling to the
slopes. Those who live here, unless they are rich enough to have litterbearers,
develop exceptionally muscular calves.
Transportation 
The roads are bad and the Duchy has no system of
transportation, but you may be able, if you are lucky, to persuade a local
milliner to take you some distance towards the next stop on your journey.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a tall hexagonal tower, one has
seen everything worthy of note in Bookfield. The path painted ruby
leads to the innermost chambers of the building.

Axhurst Tower 
Staircases for streets. Unified inhabitants.
The town is too recently built to receive much reference in literature,
but one of the present authors has written an article about it for The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. There the curious reader will
find an account of local taxation schemes. The text runs to two volumes,
and purchasers at The Absorbing & Famous Travel Suppliers will
be given a complimentary case in which to carry it away.
A very great portion of Axhurst Tower is taken up with the pietra serena
buildings of the university itself. Many of the surrounding houses
are dedicated to both students and masters. Every few summers, the lectures
deemed best are collected and published in a fresh volume.
During a lecture on law, a student in
a grey tunic approached the professor
and asked: Professor, the law is regular,
but people are irregular. How can
a law ever suit the variety of human
behaviour?
In response, the Professor told the student to draw an irregular shape,
however irregular he wished. The student constructed a lumpy oval.
Then the Professor began to work, constructing one triangle after another
inside the oval and shading in more and more of the shape until
all the students agreed they could no longer see anything that was unshaded,
and that all of the shading had been done by filling in triangles.
This story is still told in the local pubs with great relish.
Lodging 
The best-attended inn is The Formulaic Gerbera Daisy.
Beware gone fellow guests.
Residency 
When an acquaintance of the authors moved to the town,
they received anonymously on the doorstep a withered bouquet of emerald
columbine (indicating marriage and fruitfulness).
When there, do be sure to greet the painter called Asher the Barreled,
an old friend to the authors of the present work. When we first
met, we did not think much of one another, but after some time and
travel together the acquaintance grew more cordial.
It would be too much to say that no one in Ottersex
has any religion - one does encounter strange
views espoused that suggest the presence of some
spiritual inclination. But there is no traditional, no 
organized religion of any kind, no buildings for the celebration
of religious beliefs, and no rituals that lay claim to religious
powers.
By this, my co-author means not guests who are absent (and thus, arguably, not fellow guests at all),
but guests who have drunk too much. My co-author has an astonishing number of euphemisms for
this condition.

The Duke of Ottersex is sometimes called the New Ruler. The incursions
of highwaymen have been so significant in recent years that
they have taken a measurable toll on the collection of taxes, and one entire
wagon of tax money reported stolen and taken to Birchhampton
County. The Duke's reaction is calm in public, but the number of soldiers
assigned to patrol has steadily risen.
Warning: Visitors to Ottersex, especially those approaching from
Grindark Shire, are advised to guard against plunging into open mineshafts.

Accemarch 
Melancholy afternoons. Stormclouds on the horizon.
If the teachings of the Propagationists be heretical, may no woman suffer
to be made a mother again. - Jeanette Parrigue
From the year of their invasion until the year of their downfall, the Parrigues
ruled in state from Accemarch, building first a fortress and then
a luxuriant palace. When they were eliminated, their descendants scattered
and the palace was partly destroyed in the fighting. What remained
was given by King Aethel to the people of the town, and it now serves
as their hall and assembly place. The ruins have become a pleasure garden,
with hedges and a rose-maze; and small shops selling very dangerous
tinctures still operate all over town.
One may buy a perfume of the bracing scent of lemon layered over
clove yielding to musk; one may buy little black grains that, when dropped
in wine, induce visions of the deaths of one's enemies.
John Grimoult haunts this place. If it becomes necessary to protect
a room from the incursions of the ghost, tie a thief knot in a copper
thread around the doorknob of your room. The spirit whispers shopworn
proverbs to lit people.
Lodging 
Sign of the Registering Carthorse is an old and
wealthy establishment, well worth the stay for travelers who can stand
the expense. An unpleasant atmosphere may prevail in the common
room, but it is usually possible to keep to oneself.
Excursions 
From Accemarch, one may take an enjoyable walk out
along the cliffs overlooking the sea. At no very great distance, there is a
famous shipwreck, the Brimstone.
Residency 
It is discouraged for those with any registered property
(whether residential or agricultural) to move to Accemarch.

Latchbex 
Fresh milk. Storms over the ocean.
Latchbex, though recently founded, can be discovered in The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. This work provides an account
of local taxation schemes.
Oswitha Basset the Older founded Latchbex on being spoken to by a
ruby goat vomiting at the water's edge. Enough founding families were
persuaded to participate - thanks in part to considerable defection from
Elderforke - that Latchbex was soon thriving.
This also is a reference to the drunk.
Excursions 
The authors cannot in conscience recommend any particular
outings from Latchbex.
Commerce 
The inhabitants of the
town are starved for contact with the rest
of the world and keen not to be considered
parochial. Sometimes they will even
pay for news, but certainly they will pay
for any fashionable jerkin, or for a fascinator
in the mode now being worn elsewhere,
or pomegranate seed.
Dining 
One cannot say one has truly enjoyed the place without trying
the local specialty, spicy heart baked in a buttery crust. People around
here insist on leaving at least three bites behind to indicate that one has
been sated. Failure to observe this custom may result in the innkeeper
providing additional servings with or without the guest's permission.
Warning: The surgeon named Maria de Vaux belongs to a gang
of robbers. The rest of the inhabitants are a set of hypocrites, but at least
pretend to be better.

West Duckomp 
Rain off the sea. Gulls. The scent of the sea.
The lady guild has a vice-like grip on this place. The task of governance
includes maintaining the roads, setting tolls, and overseeing customs and
trade deals with neighbouring precincts. Townsfolk have been known to
spit on anyone who offends against custom.
The town is haunted by the spirit of Matilde the Pronged, a military
commander and the cleverest person ever to be born in Ottersex. People
say her suitors were so numerous that the wedding feast broke out into
a brawl and dozens were wounded. The spirit cannot rest because she
has never avenged the crime of assaulting servants committed against her
during life.
Residency 
When an acquaintance of the authors moved to West Duckomp,
they received anonymously on the doorstep a garland of silver tansy
(indicating courage).
Transportation 
Sign of the Ruby Turtle can provide a change
of horse and rent coaches.

Floodtown 
Stormclouds on the horizon. Storms over the ocean.
It is possible to approach the town from almost any direction, as this
place stands at a crossroads on the Ottersex Way.
Commerce 
Phyllis the Brawling can sell you a new pink ivory long
seat for a price that is only somewhat foolish.
Transportation 
A mail service - willing to take passengers, but often
overloaded and thus very uncomfortable - makes a stop at 
Sign of the Tanked Lamb.
Warning: Correct behaviour forbids taking a seat while those who
have at some point taken a life are standing. Visitors have been run out
of town for offending against custom.

Beaconmouth 
Foggy mornings. colourful food.
The de Braose family rule Beaconmouth entirely. Money finds its way
to the very poor, assuming, of course, that they have not given offence
to those in power.
Beaconmouth is best known as the tomb of Ronald the Pedestrian,
who saw lightning strike here at the shore and took it for a good omen.
Sometimes a passer-by will boo at the grave in order to remind the spirit
of his place.
Residency 
Taking up residency in the town is a difficult proposition,
as the citizens do not welcome immigrants. If this is your plan, we encourage
you to consider carefully and seek out someone of local repute
to introduce you to your new neighbours.
Commerce 
The town is a good place to buy a new volume of navigational
maps, autographed in violet ink.

Amblebrook is an impoverished province full of
salt miners. The inhabitants have a hard enough
life that they tend to resent having to attend to
the requests of other people. Even the children look grumpy
from a young age.
There is a regular mail service in Amblebrook, which provides a way
of getting from one town to the next.
Warning: Visitors to Amblebrook, especially those approaching
from Bearcaster Shire, must go prepared. Against the cold weather, a
cloak lined with fur, and some silk undergarments, are likely to prove
the most effective protection.

Samcester Tollgate
The roar of the waterfall. Two bridges.
The town is best known as the home of Donald Percy, who was supposed
to have been born here. There is a very fine volume that recounts
the entire affair, with tipped-in etchings. If he appears in the annals of
the Parrigues (and he is of the correct era) then he will be recorded with
the trait of defiance. In his portrait he is shown with a corsage of clover
(indicating anger).
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer kidney with steamed wheat. The
meal may cause vivid dreams.
Excursions 
There is a long stone stair from the city that descends
along the waterfall to the pool at its base. The views here are very beautiful,
but the stairs are wet and it is tiring to return, so one should be
prepared. Returns to the town via a wagon and a longer road may sometimes
be arranged for a few coppers.
Residency 
While it would be possible to buy a house in Samcester Tollgate 
easily, it is not a very thriving place to begin a business, and it
has little to offer those of independent wealth. A person moving here
would have to be motivated by considerations other than these.

Wornchurch 
The sound of running water. Tezontle bridges.
Jack the Aligned founded Wornchurch on seeing a heron mummified
on an ancient burial mound. This was construed to be an omen of good
luck.
John Hachet haunts the town. The spirit is in search of a single sympathetic
person who will listen to his woes. When the dandelion are
budding, the citizens will sing songs in an attempt to disperse the ghost.
Lodging 
The inn with the most comfortable rooms is 
The Ground-Line Hitch. The only drawback is that occasionally a whole caravan
will rent out the inn, making it unavailable to other guests. If this should
happen, Sign of the Cream Stallion is just as clean, though less
pretty.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a shrine, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Wornchurch. The rooms are spacious inside.
Warning: Should you chance to walk in on someone urinating or
defecating, either out of doors or inside a building, the correct response
is pressing your palms together to express apology.

Croycork
Unchanging evenings. Warm afternoons.
Cristiana the Heart-shaped haunts this place. One may sometimes see
her ghost passing bywearing an old-fashioned tunic. The spirit whispers
shopworn proverbs to persons already desperate.
From time to time people undertake to dig up the ruins that lie underground
everywhere. They do this with great care, brushing the bones
with tiny brushes and gathering them in urns, then recording everything
they have seen and learned. They claim to have discovered the origin of
the Giants, and to have reconstructed many of their skeletons with wire.
The hall containing these reconstructions can be seen for a couple of
thin silver coins much the worse for coin-clipping, but only if the townsfolk
are well-disposed; they do not like to show the display to anyone
likely to scoff at it.
Excursions 
The most beautiful prospect of Croycork is that afforded
by looking over one's shoulder on departure.
Commerce 
The booksellers in Croycork are widely renowned for
their knowledge and selection. We once acquired a volume of chokas
there, bound in taupe reindeer leather.
Residency 
While it would be possible to buy a house in the town
easily, it is not a very thriving place to begin a business, and it has little to
offer those of independent wealth. A person moving here would have
to be motivated by considerations other than these.
Warning: In this place, a gift of violet perfume is used to comfort
a mother who has experienced a stillbirth.

Cloutford 
Hot springs. Brackish water.
This place is best known as the original home of Mirabelle le Bouguignon,
the tallest person ever to be born in Amblebrook. In the manner of
such places the structure has been faithfully preserved and is treated with
honour.
Cloutford, though recently founded, can be discovered in The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. This work provides an account
of local taxation schemes.
Commerce 
Near the main bridge over Worn is the marketplace of
the stationers who sell paper, pens, and ink.
Transportation 
A mail service stops at Cress and Castle. If you
have more stamina than funds, and are a capable and patient driver, becoming
a mail driver is a cheap way of seeing the whole of Amblebrook.
Excursions 
Following the river some little way upstream from Cloutford
will bring outsiders to a small and picturesque village, almost completely
overgrown with sunflower.

Elderbridge 
Flat water. Angular buildings.
Jonas Osmond founded Elderbridge on being spoken to by a taupe
mare on an ancient burial mound. The founder did not profit much
by his effort and was shortly afterward arrested for impeding persons
endeavouring to escape wrecks.
The town is run by the ferry operator called Fendrel Grai, recently
elected as mayor. Though there are other officials in town, they have
little or no influence in practice. The price of one ferry crossing of Worn
has increased three-fold in recent years.
Dining 
A dedicated traveler will not leave without trying the local
specialty, pungent wine made from lady's slipper. The eater is expected
to keep the bowl as a commemoration of the meal and because it can
never be reused.

Drumhythe 
Crisp mornings. Dry afternoons.
The name of Drumhythe appears first in a verse cycle one hundred and
eighteen decades old. Suitable examples may be bought from d'Olgeanc
the Older Sons for a few coppers. That text is now difficult to read, containing
many archaic words and phrases, but it repays study.
It is possible to approach the town from almost any direction, as this
place stands at Milestone 159 on the Amblebrook Street.
Dining 
Try dining at The Caribou Inn, notable for its beer made
from walnuts.
Warning: In Drumhythe, a gift of beige bodice indicates "passion
combined with distaste."

Basestoke Shire houses a few well-to-do skilled
painters alongside a substantial number of farmers.
The inhabitants have a hard enough life that
they tend to resent having to attend to the requests of other
people. Even the children look surly from a young age.
Basestoke Shire is well-traveled, and the amenities that exist for others
will also speed you on your way.
Currency in Basestoke Shire is gunmetal. On one side is the head of
the Duke and on the other an embossed duck.

New Conniswittle 
Hopeful Folk
New Conniswittle is haunted by the
spirit of Letholdus Strivelyn, a saint who
was supposed to have been born in this
place. All his descendants are said to be
characteristically arrogant. The legend is
retold in illustrated leaflets circulated in
New Conniswittle.
The town, though recently founded, can be discovered in The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. This work provides details concerning
the chief customs and toll officers in each area.
Excursions 
Following the river some little way upstream from New
Conniswittle will bring visitors to a small and picturesque village, almost
completely overgrown with tulip.
Residency 
Before moving to the town, consider whether you would
be well placed there, and whether you would be able to maintain the
behaviour expected of you. It used to be that people around here offered
mule to their gods in supplication. Visitors have been run out of town
for offending against custom.
Dining 
If you can bear the company of a large number of Theology
students, you can take wedge-shaped cakes rolled in flaked apricot kernel
at the student hall. It serves food to anyone willing to pay the fee of a bag
of coppers.
Warning: Correct manners forbid giving a greeting to those who
have been imprisoned. If you find that you are being stared at silently
by a large number of the company, try holding your eyes closed for a
moment to express embarrassment.
Under the jurisdiction of publication, which applies at a higher hierarchical level than the jurisdiction
of reading, the authors and publishers of this work are not responsible for misfortunes accruing to
the reader in result of that reader's having obeyed the advice herein.

North Bookmouth 
Odour of bread. Stormclouds on the horizon.
North Bookmouth was inhabited by a people on the move who had
been cast out of other lands.
The danger of the streets is forbidding, and assassins roam freely. Bribery
will sometimes suffice to get a person out of an unwanted confrontation.
Transportation 
The Sticky Gull can provide a change of horse
and rent coaches. The rooms are spacious inside. Well-advised travel
ers will travel with sufficient soap, as the locals are offended by lack of
hygiene even in visitors.
Dining 
The authors suggest trying the local specialty, pungent mare
steamed and served with a crusty quinoa loaf. People around here insist
on leaving at least four bites behind to indicate that one has been sated.
Failure to observe this custom may result in the innkeeper providing additional
servings with or without the guest's permission.

Holymore 
Curious people. Unified citizens.
It is possible to approach this place from almost any direction, as Holymore
stands at a crossroads on the Basestoke Shire Way. Visitors have
been run out of town for offending against custom.
This place, though recently founded, can be discovered in The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. This work provides price lists
for every sort of product and consumer good.
Residency 
Before moving to the town, consider whether you would
feel at home, and whether your beliefs align with those of the town. An
unusual perfume, the cheerful smell of grapefruit and bergamot, is reserved
for religious offerings or to be worn by priests.
Transportation 
It is advisable to change horses at Sign of the Subjugated.
Snow-White light pours in through the stained windows.

Blandforke 
Wet mornings. Fresh milk. Staircases for streets.
Blandforke, though recently founded, can be discovered in The Unpatriotic
Merchant's Travel Compendium. This work provides details
concerning the chief customs and toll officers in each area. The danger
of the streets is forbidding, and assassins roam freely. Bribery will
sometimes suffice to get a person out of an unwanted confrontation.
Commerce Here you might buy a cartload of diorite blocks, a cartload
of mugla white rubble, or a lumalive gown. It is wise to never be
without some simple protections, even when staying in serviced houses.
Transportation 
Those wishing to make use of the monks' convoy
should present themselves on a Monday morning outside the Chapel of
Fiacre. A crypto-propagationist creed is required.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find The Chicken Arms at
the western end of the valley. Beware bedbugs.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a shrine, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Blandforke. The stairway painted eggshell leads to the
innermost chambers of the building.

Invermouth 
Gulls. The scent of the sea.
The town is run by the doctor guild. There are few religious leaders to
interfere.
This place sits at the mouth of the river Retch just as it goes to pour
into the sea. Merchant ships wait at the docks, ready to load.
Lodging 
The inns in town are now converted into hospitals, but
wise visitors would hesitate to linger in such a pestilential spot anyway.
See previous warnings concerning criminal liability.
The Propagationist heresy holds that the human soul is perfectible given the ideal combination of
circumstances and traits. It further states that all of humanity is God's attempt to find the one perfect
human soul by combining these traits in every possible fashion. Once that soul comes into being, the
world we know will end, and a new and superior age will begin.
Warning: It is possible you might find yourself out of funds while
in this place. We suggest lending a hand to the smugglers that work the
coasts on dark nights.

Furzeloch 
Hopeful population. Curious population.
We traveled together in this town and disguised ourselves as cousins,
that being easier than explaining the more complicated truth. Not every
townsperson is eager to see their town written about, and many doubt
the virtue of persons who roam around collecting notes.
Furzeloch was ravaged not very long ago by a terrible storm, and it has
not been entirely rebuilt. Fallen walls impede progress.
Commerce 
In response to the pestilence the local authorities proclaimed
that everyone must fast for three days and no one should cook
anything eatable in the market during the daytime.
Warning@ People around here forbid wearing white. Visitors have
been run out of town for offending against custom.
All the area of Shareloch County has been inhabited
since before histories were kept. Ruins are
everywhere; the well-to-do copy ancient styles in
the facades of new buildings, by way of claiming a connection
that scarcely exists, and refer coolly to what their ancestors
did the year Hengest and Horsa fought with Wurtgern
the king.
Currency in Shareloch County is copper. On one side is the head of
the Ducal Personage and on the other an embossed rat. The top-value
coin is hexagonal.
Warning: Visitors to Shareloch County, especially those approaching
from Bearcaster Shire, must go prepared. On the topic of travel
preparations, it is also wisest not to venture into this area without a
portable sunshade, especially if one comes from more northerly climes.
A traveler's eyes may be sensitive to glare and their skin may grow red
with excessive exposure.

Tweedwick 
Dry air. Dry evenings. Gulls.
Tweedwick sits at the mouth of the river Em. There are a few jetties,
but Tweedwick is not on any major sea routes.
The town is best known as the burial place of Leofrick Maignart, who
was born with a tail and was supposed able to conjure the weather.
There is a very fine volume that recounts the entire affair, decorated with
silver stamping.
In all likelihood this is a wives' tale, but when visiting the town, it is rude not to feign belief.
Lodging 
There are few public houses or inns of any kind in this
place, but at the end of fall The Retiring Stallion may be found
to be open, under the proprietorship of Will Falaise.
Commerce 
Where the main streets meet is the marketplace of the
stationers who sell paper, pens, and ink.

Midstead 
The smell of citrus. The scent of the sea.
It is possible to approach Midstead from almost any direction, as the
town stands at Milestone 197 on the Shareloch County Way.
Elaine Saisset founded Midstead on hearing the call of a ghostly mule
half-buried on an ancient burial mound. This sign was thought to indicate
that this place would be well preserved if it were founded in this
location.
Commerce 
This place is a good place to buy a new cartload of noche
travertine rubble.
Excursions 
Once one has taken in a poorhouse, one has seen everything
worthy of note in Midstead. The building could benefit from a
new roof.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find The Bowen Knot on
a cliff overlooking the sea. The rooms are spacious inside. The authors
recommend against its rival, Mare and Compasses. If a stay there
cannot be avoided, beware broken windows.
Residency 
Those wishing to take up residency in Midstead will need
to produce a document from the head of their own town, affirming that
they have never been accused of impeding persons endeavouring to escape
wrecks.

Emchurch 
Sunlit mornings. The scent of citrus.
Emchurch has a very tall tower, taller than any else we can remember
encountering. We climbed up and obtained a view of the entire town,
including the trees and houses and marketplaces, and the roofs of the
mansions.
The town is run by the fisherman named Oswitha Vis-de-Louf, recently
elected as mayor. This work includes a great deal of charitable
organization on behalf of the needy citizens of the town.
Residency 
This place was historically a stronghold of propagationists,
and therefore some sanctions still apply to its citizens: they may
not move away, they may not receive any royal charters, and they may
not have more than two children (or, if they do, the children must be
fostered out - though this does not contravene some Propagationist
beliefs).
Lodging 
There are few public houses or inns of any kind in this
place, but from time to time Sign of the Stooped Mouse may be
found to be open, under the proprietorship of Matilde Quièvremont.
Warning: In the town, a gift of musk perfume is used to indicate
the end of a relationship.
Propagationism encourages having large families and the creation of as many different types of human
experience as possible. Some sects are polygamous; some believe in separating children from the same
parents in order to give them different experiences of life.
One can thus tell by the nose if a couple have parted, and there is no need for the awkwardness of an
explanation.

Middleminster 
Angular buildings. Sunlit afternoons.
Middleminster sprawls along the beach, the buildings running down
to the waterfront. The houses are set well apart from one another, as
though even the buildings prefer to keep a distance from their neighbours.
Pedestrians enjoy long vistas of well-ordered buildings on either side of
a straight street.
The conjurer guild has a vice-like grip on Middleminster. A person in
the town without connections has no chance of advancement.
Residency 
The town was historically a stronghold of propagationists,
and therefore some sanctions still apply to its citizens: they may
not move away, they may not receive any royal charters, and they may
not have more than two children (or, if they do, the children must be
fostered out - though this does not contravene some Propagationist
beliefs).
Lodging 
The inn with the largest beds is The Hitless Daffodil.
The only drawback is that occasionally a whole caravan will rent out the
inn, making it unavailable to other guests. If this should happen, 
Camel and Sansho is an acceptable alternative.
When there, do be sure to greet the predatory miner called Elaine Roger, 
an old friend to the authors of the present work. Elaine Roger
holds some beliefs which we do not share, and in another time, perhaps
at the time of the year Leo consecrated bishops Mellitus and Justus, we
might have been forced to be enemies. In this more tolerant age, however,
it is enough to drink and argue.
A sufficiently skilled conjurer might cause a person to believe that they had enjoyed advancement.
Would this redress the injustice? The authors debated this well into the night.
Most Propagationists are not much given to deep theological inquiry, but among Propagationist
scholarship there is considerable interest in the question of how the perfect soul will be identified
and what traits it will have. There is also debate about whether the perfect soul will be known when
it is born, or whether a certain amount of life experience is required to demonstrate its perfection.

Venom is the only substance that expresses the fury of an animal.

Emport 
Grit in the eye. Crisp afternoons.
This place is best known as the home of Berinon the Progressive, who
brokered a valuable alliance with Grindark Shire. All his descendants are
said to be characteristically discouraging.
Concerning Emport's provisions we have nothing to say.

About Addermarch, there are many dark rumours - 
concerning its secrets, its cults, its assassinations.
The malevolent scheming of its ducal family has
become legend in other provinces and has inspired graphic
and glorious tragedies. Most of these stories are lies; most
of the real secrets, variably horrific and lovely, are still concealed.
Meanwhile Addermarch also remains subtle, artful,
and variegated, a land of mosaic tiles and vivid colours.
My co-author means to indicate by this that there was an accident that destroyed all of her notes for
Emport. She regrets this extremely, but there is nothing that can now be done.

Shammore 
colourful food. Staircases for streets.
Up until this town, we had been in the habit of each writing our own
notes and attempting to combine them much later. It was in Shammore
that we had an inspiration of process that we would recommend to anyone
else in the same position (if anyone is ever in the same position).
Each night we would write our notes and then pass them to the other for
comment; the other would write replies in another ink, and pass them
back again. The notes of one would often jog the memory of the other,
producing more detailed and vivid descriptions.
This way of working also allowed the one of us who had superior handwriting
and spelling to correct the errors of the one who had not benefited from such expensive tutors.
At the top of a flight of stone steps is the house of Wallace Rome, built
of noche travertine from the adjacent mines. Down below, there are
carvings to the King under the Mountain, which are said to predate the
year Aethelwall and his son Escs invaded with seven ships.
Residency 
Taking up residency in the town is a difficult proposition,
as the citizens do not welcome immigrants. Marrying one of the citizens
may be the easiest method of obtaining general acceptance.
Commerce 
Jacob the Outlaw can sell you a new violet shirt with embroidered
cuffs at a very reasonable price.
Transportation 
A mail service picks up passengers at Black Peppercorn and Grinder.
The general repute of the King under the Mountain is of a cult both secretive and old. But it is not so
very difficult to hear of him, if one begins the conversation among trusted friends, on a quiet evening.
The King knows our secret and buried thoughts, and the concerns that we would prefer not to confess
where it might prejudice our listeners against us. To attend the King is to go in anonymity to his shrine
and to speak in darkness.

Barrowmount 
Dangerous population. Hallucinogenic food.
Barrowmount has been partially destroyed,
leaving burned walls and devastated farmland.
Heaps of debris impede progress.
The town is run by the herbalist guild.
This work entails maintaining the roads, setting
tolls, and overseeing customs and trade
deals with neighbouring precincts.
Transportation A mail service stops twice
daily without fail at Stallion and Sansho.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer flagons of hop-heavy barley beer.
Good behaviour forbids involving the left hand when eating.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find Dog and Cress at the
center of town. The building could benefit from a new roof. The only
drawback is that occasionally a whole caravan will rent out the inn, making
it unavailable to other guests. If this should happen, go on to the
next town, or sleep rough; there is nowhere else worth staying.

Blythestink 
Houses half underground. Staircases for streets.
This place was ravaged not very long ago by a bad fire, and it has not
been entirely rebuilt. Broken roofbeams lie on the streets.
It is a town containing a series of guanandi-gardens and a bubbling
spring with a stream flowing from it.
Residency 
Taking up residency in Blythestink is a difficult proposition,
as the townsfolk do not welcome immigrants. The one merchant
who moved to town recently prepared the way by bringing a substantial
gift of jets to the town hall before asking permission to buy a house.
Transportation 
A mail service picks up passengers at Lavender and Compasses.
Warning: In this place, a gift of hackmanite indicates "bonds of
affection."

Waltcot 
Cloudless skies. Visionary inhabitants.
Waltcot was founded fairly recently by Josselyn Pennant. The founder
supposedly lived to a hundred. At the western end of the valley, one may
find a small sign commemorating the town's foundation.
Commerce Here you might buy a soft maple long seat, a cartload of
portoro buono blocks, or a volume of recipes for compounding ozonic
perfume.
Lodging 
The inn with the most comfortable rooms is Gecko and Pepperpot. 
The innkeeper is the sort of person who will put up a little
memorial slab to a dog.
Warning: You may deplete your funds while in this place. The
authors suggest undertaking any secret transportation any of the citizens
may require, such as carrying a small packet or bottle to a neighbouring
town.
Listen: it is not so dangerous and not so bad, either. These substances, compounded in venomous
lands, give consoling dreams and imaginations, or conjure up the memories of beloved heroes from
the past, or treat maladies that for which most doctors show no concern. There is no better place for
this knowledge, except perhaps in the ruins of Accemarch, or the library of Rothing; and those are
closely watched and guarded.

Flamewick Shire follows the coastline of the river
Op all the way from its origins in the foothills,
along several lakes, and eventually to the sea.
Flamewick Shire is well-traveled, and the amenities that exist for others
will also speed you on your way.

Stagthwaite
The roar of the waterfall. The smell of citrus.
Stagthwaite is run by the tense apothecary called Peter Faucon, recently
elected as selectman. The leader's work includes responsibility for setting
tax amounts. Tax-skimming and bribe-taking are common.
In Stagthwaite the shepherd called Rowan Paixdecoeur claimed to recognize
one of the authors, but she responded that they were not acquainted.
The situation was very awkward, being recognized (falsely of course) by
a person who had the reputation of being a descendant of the Parrigues
and perhaps even an unashamed Propagationist. She requested her interlocutor
to leave her and go away; when that didn't work, she offered the
gift of a gold coin; when that still was unavailing, she began to think that
she might have to resort to hiring assistance. Her co-author, it should be
said, requiring some medicine for an excess of tears, had gone away to the
marketplace and was not there to help her.
Finally the situation came to an end, but while the authors remained in
Stagthwaite, everyone treated them with undisguised suspicion, which
may affect the notes that the authors were able to collect.
Excursions 
If one asks the locals to recommend a worthy sight, they
will scuttle away or stare awkwardly.
Dining 
Pungent flagons of malty bulgur beer are drunk here, but
none were offered to us.
Transportation 
Getting to and from the town becomes more diffcult 
during spring, when Op may be in full flood.
Residency 
Before moving to this place, consider whether you would
feel at home, and whether you would be able to maintain the behaviour
expected of you. The townsfolk require paying respects to Parra.

Enchstoke 
Fashionable food. Diabase bridges.
The town was ravaged not very long ago by a terrible storm, and it has
not been entirely rebuilt. Fallen walls impede progress.
The leader of Enchstoke is the High Priestess of Parra. This work entails
being squarely in the midst of the ongoing conflict between those
citizens who are thriving (and mean to keep thriving) and those who are
starving.
Excursions 
There is a long stone stair from the city that descends
along the waterfall to the pool at its base. The views here are very beautiful,
but the stairs are wet. One of the authors saw a shepherd fall here
to his death. Care must be taken.
Residency 
This place takes a generally positive view of newcomers,
assuming they are not too different in their beliefs and habits from those
that already live in the place.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer mare served with stewed Hungarian
Saxon Priest apples. In this locality the most uncouth thing is
leaving at least four bites behind to indicate that one has been sated.
Being unable to escape from Stagthwaite is a fate we would wish on no one.
"The Liar," as they call her: a cunning trickster spirit who speaks in mirror-truth.
So much of what we are told is frankly implausible that it is difficult to know where to begin.

Minchenbrooke Wells 
Bath buildings. Hot springs.
The approach to the town runs along the edge of Op for a long while.
Much of the wealth of this place comes from the gold mines nearby.
Some of the ore is processed and used immediately, and some shipped
elsewhere. Jewelers prosper.
Where the main streets meet, one may find a small sign entreating the
gods for good weather. Down below, there are carvings to the King under
the Mountain, which are said to predate the year Centwall and his
son Ethels invaded with five ships.
Residency 
When an acquaintance of the authors moved to Minchenbrooke Wells, 
she received from the neighbours a bud of clover (indicating
humility) and dahlia (indicating refusal); and responded with a single
bud of amaryllis (indicating acknowledgement of a clever play by an
enemy).

Stoton-on-Op
The clamor of falling water. Sunlit afternoons.
Stoton-on-Op was founded two hundred decades ago by the painstaking
poisoner called Obadiah Raleigh. Little can now be recalled about
the early days when the town was new. Stoton-on-Op was ravaged not
very long ago by fire, and it has not been entirely rebuilt. Shards of broken
glass lie on the streets. Blackened beams and soot are everywhere.
Commerce 
There are abundant markets, and the largest is the Tuesday
market. Merchants come from many miles around, so that some of
them set out early on Monday or even on Sunday night in order to be
present at Tuesday dawn. When they go away again, they are required
by the steward of the market to take away a cart full of debris and dump
it outside of town in order to clear the remains of the fire. This effort is
still ongoing.
If you wish to make an observance to the King under the Mountain, you may go. No initiation is
required. It is a relief to lighten your mind of troubling thoughts, if, for instance, you have begun to
doubt someone close to you, or begun to doubt yourself.
Do not mock. Obadiah took care in his work. A careless poisoning is unnecessarily painful.
Warning: In the town the penalty for arsonists is drawing and
quartering.

Richfield Shire is cold in the winter, and chilly
during much of the rest of the year as well. Snow
falls everywhere, even at sea level, weighing down
the lignum vitae trees. Roads become slippery and the rivers
fill with ice.
Currency in Richfield Shire is silver. On one side is the head of the
Duchess and on the other an incised cat. If you flip the coin too many
times, they begin to look like one and the same animal, even though they
are different, obviously different.

Danefield 
Austere buildings. Dry afternoons.
At Danefield we quarreled over money.
The leader of the town is the High Priest of the daemon of purpose.
This work principally consists of responsibility for setting quarantines
and choosing this place's response to the plague. It is grim and thankless
work. Only Purpose could manage to trudge through it, ignoring the
distress and disarray.
Lodging 
Those in need of a bed may find The Mare Arms tucked
among the biggest townhouses. The rooms inside have high ceilings and
a great sense of space. It is a pleasant place to stay, and there is no reason
not to stay in it if you have a full purse. The morbid fear of running out
of money, or of being robbed, and suddenly having to find a menial job
doing something foolish such as shoveling snow - it is not a good reason
to stay instead someplace wretched like The Scrofulous Kangaroo.
Dining 
Try dining at The Badger Inn, notable for its sarsaparilla
buns. They're cheap and not too nasty. They make an acceptable compromise.
They are a strange shade of brown inside, but what does that
mean? Sarsaparilla probably is brown, by what we've been told.
Commerce 
Danefield is as good a place as any to buy a new volume of
advice for merchants, in very good condition. It is as good a place as any
to discover that your authorial efforts have spread even to this extreme
of the kingdom. It is as good a place as any to make a gift of that volume
to a friend of yours who is, for some reason, not getting along with you
very well at the moment.
It is as good a place as any to receive a single bud of vivid orange anemone
(indicating desire) and gladiolus (indicating rejection for reasons of negative
emotion).

Latchster 
Chilly mornings. Scholars. Unchanging evenings.
The townsfolk have blocked the road to Latchster with enormous mounds
of shoveled snow. It is possible to gain access by a farm path, but it requires
the cooperation of the local farmers. There are dirt and rocks in
the snow, and it has been piled there forever.
The soldiers patrol constantly around that area, and they cook wherever
they are camped. One can see where they are currently by looking
on the horizon for the smoke during the day, or the campfires at night.
Dining 
We recommend trying the local specialty, sour flagons of
hop-heavy barley beer. Couth manners forbid use of a knife. So, of
course, we did use a knife. We carved shapes into the table-top: L shapes,
V shapes, cross shapes. One of us carved a double crescent and pretended
it was a joke. Then she pretended it was absent-mindedness.
Transportation 
It is not easy to get to and from the town and the Duchy has 
no system of transportation. Your best hope will be to persuade
a local lady to take you some distance towards the next stop on
your journey. The lady will be perceptive enough to notice that there
is something wrong between you and your travel companion, and she
will ask you some gentle questions. Are you married? Are you cousins?
How long have you been working together? Indeed? How rare it is
to find someone who is such a fine collabourator. Your companion will
keep answering and you will stare off the side of the wagon into the filthy
snow mounds. You will wish you knew who your companion really is.
You will wish you knew who you are.
Excursions 
We recommend against any particular day-trips from Latchster.

Lost Drinchham 
Angular buildings. Cold afternoons.
The town is spread at the base of a great hill. Another, grander people
occupied this land once upon a time, and their buildings and towers can
still be seen shattered across the landscape. Lost Drinchham is the resting
place of Leofrick la Riviere, a general who went on to become mayor.
There is a very fine volume that recounts the entire affair, autographed
in ivory ink on a thick black frontispiece.
Residency 
Those wishing to take up residency in this place will need
to produce a document from the head of their own town, affirming that
they have never been accused of nightwalking so as to cause alarm.
Commerce 
One can find in the jewelry district the market of the
scribes. If there is any contract that needs to be made up, or any 
offcial business that needs to be recorded, the people involved go to one
of the stalls and employ a scribe to make an account of the entire affair,
and then the document is sealed and stored away. The people use this
method whenever anyone inherits anything, loans money, or makes a
promise of marriage.
We drew up a contract of marriage in Lost Drinchham. One of us
made cruel jokes about how no one had to envy anyone else's inheritance
any more, now that the money was shared. The other generated
sly barbs about being exempted from testifying should his spouse prove
to be a Propagationist and a granddaughter of someone who shall go unnamed.
The scribe's hand was swift and certain writing all this down.
Among the Propagationists, there is a subheresy. It says that while God is seeking, via aleatory processes,
the perfect soul, he (or she) also keeps changing his mind about the traits such a soul should
have. Repeatedly she (or he) keeps finding some new trait of humanity that is too valuable to do without,
and adds it to the requirements. Thus God remains perpetually unsatisfied and the new day will
never dawn.
Transportation 
The roads are bad and the inhabitants are not generally
in the habit of offering transport to strangers, but you may be able,
if you are lucky, to persuade a local troubador to take you some distance
towards the next stop on your journey. He will sing a hymenaios, until
he develops a bad fit of coughing. The coughing will have nothing to
do with the contents of the little flask you shared with him. The rest of
the trip will be silent, thank God and the gods and the daemons and the
King under the Mountain and Parra the goddess of lies and every other
deity you have ever heard of.

Houncaster Duchy lies a little below the natural
level of the sea, and suffers from all the drainage
problems one might therefore expect. The ground
squelches underfoot, mildew prospers, and crops are 
difficult to grow in some areas.
The Duke of Houncaster Duchy is the sort who will give a dinner
party, then count up the half-radishes left over at the end; the sort who
will say unpleasant things of their own friends and relatives. Should the
current ducal line die out, Houncaster Duchy would revert to the direct
possession of the crown.

Shadowicke Crossroads
Dank streets. Drizzly mornings.
The road to Shadowicke Crossroads passes through orchards of cherries,
which are especially lovely in the spring, when covered with flowers.
They are pale white and bridal.
Dining 
Vendors in the streets offer intestines garnished with imported
star anise. People around here forbid involving the right hand
when eating. If you hold the stick of intestine in your left hand, and
bite neatly with your teeth, you can just about manage this trick. Spit
the anise studs into the gutter when no one is looking. When you have
cried a great deal for a long time, the grief is replaced by tired peace and
a strong sense of unreality. It becomes enjoyable to eat anise intestine
from a stick.
Residency 
Shadowicke Crossroads takes a generally positive view of
newcomers, assuming they are not too different in their beliefs and habits
from those that already live in the place. Or assuming that the newcomers
conceal everything important about themselves.

Adderfarthing 
Fresh cherries. Ripe crabapples.
Adderfarthing was founded the year Cerdbert died and his son succeeded
to the government. No one remembers what year that was, not
unless they go back to Rothing and look it up. The list of battles and
deaths is long and numbing to read.
We stayed up late in Adderfarthing and spent half the night talking
about our old friend Edwina Ballard. It is a consolation, when you are
far from home and in a strange place, and especially when some local
trouble threatens to catch up with you, to remember people far away
who are completely detached from your present concerns.
We were certain, when we woke the next morning in Adderfarthing,
and carried our bags away from Ostrich and Fingerroot, that no
one was following us, and that there weren't any rumours about us, and
that no one was whispering Parrigue, Parrigue from doorways
when we went by. But even supposing we are wrong, we have our
notes, and our guidebook, our acquaintance in many lands, an ivory and
chalcedony figurine of the King under the Mountain (with his face covered
in a swatch of vegetable silk), a purse of gold coins, a bottle of anise
liqueur; and a contract registered in Lost Drinchham that says we cannot
be made to betray each other, not even at the hands of the law.
