As far as I'm aware I'm not specifically banned anywhere in the USA, and
am rather depressed about it. Surely some of you guys can do
something?
People whose concept of ancient history is the first series of Star Trek
may be treated with patience, because it's usually not their fault they
were reduced to getting their education from school.
I'll be more enthusiastic about encouraging thinking outside the box when
there's evidence of any thinking going on inside it.
"But ye gotta know where ye're just gonna rush in. Ye cannae just rush
in anywhere. It looks bad, havin' to rush oout again straight awa'."
There will also be the usual welter of 'Good Morning, A Place I've Never
Heard of' shows and, a lovely term, a number of drive-by signings.
My experience in Amsterdam is that cyclists ride  where the hell they
like and aim in a state of rage at all pedestrians while ringing their
bell loudly, the concept of avoiding people being foreign to them.
My dream holiday would be a) a ticket to Amsterdam b) immunity from
prosecution and c) a baseball bat  
It gets worse. I have, before now, waited for a pen to perform a macro.
There should be a notice ahead of the movie that says 'This
movie is PG. Can you read? You are a Parent. Do you understand what
Guidance is? Or are you just another stupid toddler who thinks they're
an adult simple because they've grown older and, unfortunately, have
developed fully-functioning sexual organs? Would you like some
committee somewhere to decide everything for you? Get a damn grip,
will you? And shut the wretched kid up!'
The difference between me and Neil in our attitude to movie projects is
that he doesn't believe they're going to happen until he's sitting in
his seat eating popcorn, and I don't believe they're going to happen.
I think perhaps the most important problem is that we are trying to
understand the fundamental workings of the universe via a language
devised for telling one another when the best fruit is.
However, you do need rules. Driving on the left (or the right or, in
parts of Europe, on the left and the right as the mood takes you) is a
rule which works, since following it means you're more likely to reach
your intended rather than your final destination.
Every procedure for getting a cat to take a pill works fine - once.
Like the Borg, they learn...
Personally, I think the best motto for an educational establishment is:
'Or Would You Rather Be a Mule?'
A true beanie should have a propellor on the top.
This isn't life in the fast lane, it's life in the oncoming traffic.
I mean, I wouldn't pay more than a couple of quid to see me, and I'm me.
I think that sick people in Ankh-Morpork generally go to a vet. It's
generally a better bet. There's more pressure on a vet to get it right.
People say "it was god's will" when granny dies, but they get angry when
they lose a cow.
I have to admit that I drive past Bridgwater quite regularly. And fast.
What you have here is an example of that well known phenomenon, A Bookshop
Assistance Who Knows Buggerall But Won't Admit It (probably some kind of
arts graduate).
I staggered into a Manchester bar late one night on a tour and the waitress
said "You look as if you need a Screaming Orgasm". At the time this was the
last thing on my mind...
Never trust any complicated cocktail that remainds perfectly clear until
the last ingredient goes in, and then immediately clouds.
In Reading [England] there is this thing called the IDR, short for "Inner
Distribution Road", which is bureaucratese for "Big thing that cost a lot
of money and relieves traffic problems, provided all your traffic wants to
orbit the town centre permanently". It's a 2-3 lane dual carriageway that
goes round the town centre. It has lots of roundabouts, an overhead
section, a couple of spare motorway-like exits (that's British motorways -
y'know, the roundabout with the main road going under it), and a thing
called the Watlington Street Gyratory, where you have to get in lane for
your intended destination about three years and two corners before you get
there with no signposting. I used to cycle along it every day to get to
school, before I fell off at 35 mph. [Kids! Don't try this at home!]  I
know it well. I believe it is impossible to leave Reading heading west.
I didn't go to university. Didn't even finish A-levels. But I have sympathy
for those who did.
That seems to point up a significant difference between Europeans and
Americans. A European says: "I can't understand this, what's wrong with
me?" An American says: "I can't understand this, what's wrong with him?"
"Out of Print" is bookseller speak for "We can't be hedgehogged".
I was thinking of 'duh?' in the sense of 'a sentence containing several
words more than three letters long, and possibly requiring general
knowledge or a sense of history that extends past last Tuesday, has been
used in my presense.'
Oh, come on. Revelation was a mushroom dream that belonged in the
Apocrypha. The New Testament is basically about what happened when God got
religion.
'Educational' refers to the process, not the object. Although, come to
think of it, some of my teachers could easily have been replaced by a
cheeseburger.
I once absend-mindedly ordered Three Mile Island dressing in a restaurant
and, with great presence of mind, they brought Thousand Island Dressing and
a bottle of chili sauce.
Well, they asked me in February, and I said it was coming out in November.
When they asked in March, I said it was coming out in November. In April I
pointed out that November, in fact, was going to be when the next book came
out. In May, when asked on many occasions about when Maskerade was coming
out, I said November. In November, it will be published. The same November
all the way through, too.
Bognor has always meant to me the quintessential English seaside experience
(before all this global warming stuff): driving in the rain to get there,
walking around in the rain looking for something to do when you're there,
and driving home in the rain again...
Over the centuries, mankind has tried many ways of combating the forces of
evil...prayer, fasting, good works and so on. Up until Doom, no one seemed
to have thought about the double-barrel shotgun. Eat leaden death, demon...
You can't make people happy by law. If you said to a bunch of average
people two hundred years ago "Would you be happy in a world where medical
care is widely available, houses are clean, the world's music and sights
and foods can be brought into your home at small cost, travelling even 100
miles is easy, childbirth is generally not fatal to mother or child, you
don't have to die of dental abcesses and you don't have to do what the
squire tells you" they'd think you were talking about the New Jerusalem and
say 'yes'.
I must confess the the activities of the UK governments for the past couple
of years have been watched with frank admiration and amazement by Lord
Vetinari. Outright theft as a policy had never occured to him.
I'm referred to, I see, as 'the biggest banker in modern publishing'. Now
there's a line that needed the celebrated Guardian proof-reading.
I save about twenty drafts - that's ten meg of disc space - and the last
one contains all the final alterations. Once it has been printed out and
received by the publishers, there's a cry here of 'Tough shit, literary
researchers of the future, try getting a proper job!' and the rest are
wiped.
Mind you, the Elizabethans had so many words for the female genitals that
it is quite hard to speak a sentence of modern English without
inadvertently mentioning at least three of them.
I reckon that Stonehege was build by the contemporary equivalent of
Microsoft, whereas Avebury was definitely an Apple circle.
Go on, prove me wrong. Destroy the fabric of the universe. See if I care.
Currently there's five machines permanently networked here. They all
contain the serious core stuff. A couple of the machines are pensioned off
486s, with little other value now. Plus there's two Jaz drives in the
building and the portable also carries a fair amount of stuff. Plus every
Friday a man comes around and carves all the new stuff onto stone slabs and
buries them in the garden... I think I'm okay.
I think I would like to go into modelling. Of course, I don't know how to
do it, and wouldn't be any good at it if I did, so I'm going to employ
someone to walk the catwalks on my behalf. It would still be me, of
course...
She wanted a HOLIDAY in Australia, she said, and if I turned it into work
she'd hit me - so I gave in, because I did not want to be beaten about the
Bush.
Have a bit more patience with newbies. Of course some of them act dumb -
they're often students, for heaven's sake.
Death isn't on line. If he was, there would be a sudden drop in the death
rate. Although it'd be interesting to see if he'd post things like: DON'T
YOU THINK I SOUND LIKE JAMES EARL JONES?
The net software here did its meltdown trick again at the weekend (it
happens about once every six months - if only everything was as reliable
as WordPerfect 4.2, which only chews up a novel about once every two or
three years...)
I'd like to stand up for the rights of people who put everything on their
burger - chutney, mustard, pickle, mustard pickle, tomato sauce... It is
common knowledge in my family that I can't tell the difference between a
veggie burger and a meat one, because the ratio of burger to pickles is so
high.
'They can ta'k our live but they can never ta'k our freedom!'
Now there's a battle cry not designed by a clear thinker...
Mort isn't fashionable UK movie material - there's no parts in it for Hugh
or Emma, it's not set it Sheffield, and no one shoves drugs up their bum...
Too many people want to have written.
DW is based on a slew of old myths, which reach their most 'refined' form
in Hindu mythology, which in turn of course derived from the original Star
Trek episode 'Planet of Wobbly Rocks where the Security Guard Got Shot'.
Eight years involved with the nuclear industry have taught me that when
nothing can possible go wrong and every avenue has been covered, then is
the time to buy a house on the next continent.
Up until now I'd always though RSI meant 'I hate my damn job'.
Dickens, as you know, never got round to starting his home page.
You know what I'd really, really like? What I'd pay MONEY for? A ZX81 with
a disc drive. I understood the ZX81. It was so easy to interface stuff to
it.
Not only did I wipe Lemmings from my hard disc, I overwrote it so's I
couldn't get it back.
To get the walkthrough, you have to take the sponge from Nanny Ogg's pantry
and stick it in the ear of the troll with the tutu, then take the lumps and
put them in the pouch with the zombie's razor.
You can't remember the plot of the Dr Who movie because it didn't have one,
just a lot of plot holes strung together.
It did have a lot of flashing lights, though.
Dream on. British TV Is The Best In The World is on a par with the
statement about how British Justice Is The Envy Of The World ("Hey, Miguel,
how come we can't convict innocent people so quickly and expensively?")
You will have to look a long way before you find a bunch of scum-suckers
more greedy, humourless and deserving of death than the suits in the music
business.
I found while driving in Wyoming that wearing a stetson and driving a
beat-up pickup meant you could go as fast as you like, while the police
picked up Californian winnebagos that went one mph over 55. After all, they
wanted to bring money into the state, not merely circulate it.
And before anyone complains about the grammar, I'm so jetlagged that my
hands aren't even in the same time zone...
I always call it 'Tour Flu', because two or three weeks in hot bookshops
with hundreds of people usually produces an ailment of some kind. Going on
tour is like a box of rare diseases - you never know what you're going to
get.
Let's see, now... in HOGFATHER there are a number of stabbings, someone's
killed by a man made of knives, someone's killed by the dark, and someone
just been killed by a wardrobe.
It's a book about the magic of childhood. You can tell.
If it wasn't for the fun and money, I really don't know why I'd bother.
One of the highlights of the first Good Omens tour was Neil and I walking
through New York singing Shoehorn with Teeth. Well, we'd had a good
breakfast.
And you don't get mugged, either.
Somewhere around the place I've got an unfinished short story about
Schrodinger's Dog; it was mostly moaning about all the attention the cat
was getting.
I do note with interest that old women in my books become young women on
the covers... this is discrimination against the chronologically gifted.
Botswana is also the only country in the world with a colour in its flag
meant to represent rain (a sort of blue-grey). Not many people know this.
1) I have never waved a hankie in anger
2) I do not peronally know any Morris dancers
3) But Morris dancing is kind of funny and weird at the same time.
There are no inconsistencies in the Discworld books; ocassionally,
however, there are alternate pasts.
One day I'll be dead and THEN you'll all be sorry.
Any town built by filling a mud hole with sawdust and proudly having a
slug as a sort of civic totem is a town, one feels, where Rincewind would
feel right at home.
Somehow, trying to get Granny Weatherwax and 'panty raid' into the same
sentence is beyond me.
I'm sure we can arrange an academic scholarship for Detritus. Troll
cheerleaers would be nice: 'Two... four.... er.. many... lots'.
Experience has taught me that you feel better on a flight if you avoid
chicken fat in plastic sauce.
I stroll along, talk, I sign books, people buy me drinks, I forget where my
hotel is, I get lost and fall into some local body of water... done it
hundreds of times.
I've always thought the Patrician is a party animal. Can you imagine
waking up next day and remembering all those witty things you said and did,
and then realising that he was listening?
It's an old magical principle - it's even filtered down into RPG systems 
- that magic, while taking a lot of effort, can be 'stored' - in a staff,
for example. No doubt a wizard spends a little time each day charging up
his staff, although you go blind if you do it too much, of course.
Take One ticket to New Orleans
Take One cab to Bourbon Street
Take steps to the counter of the all night frozen dacquiri shop.
Take One Large Cupful.
Terry, what the heck was going on at the end of Strata? I've just
re-read the ending again and come up with another possible explanation
which takes the total number into double figures.
See? Other people would just have given you one or two. Amazing value,
I think.
3) I don't sign parts of the body, even if they're still attached.
It's not Brits who think American readers are a bunch of whinging morons
with the geo-social understanding of a wire coathanger, it's American
editors.
I don't think I've ever been critical of the money Douglas Adams makes,
especially since, as has been tactfully pointed out, I myself have had to
change banks having filled the first one up.
Oh dear, I'm feeling political today. It's just that it's dawned on me that
'zero tolerance' only seems to mean putting extra police in poor, run-down
areas, and not in the Stock Exchange.
I'm getting a lot of mail and email about FoC (I particularly liked the
postcard which read 'We were sure it was the wallpaper, you
bastard!!!!!'). I'm glad to say that most Baconians hared off after
poissons rouge.
"But you read a lot of books, I'm thinking. Hard to have faith, ain't it,
when you've read too many books?"
In Ghat they believe in vampire watermelons, although folklore is silent
about what they believe about vampire watermelons. Possibly they suck
back.
Perdita thought that not obeying rules was somehow cool. Agnes thought
that rules like "Don't fall into this huge pit of spikes" were there for a
purpose.
Lancre operated on the feudal system, which was to say, everyone feuded all
the time and handed on the fight to their descendants.
"I name you ... Esmeralda Margaret Note Spelling of Lancre!"
There are many rhymes about magpies, but none of them is very reliable
because they are not the ones the magpies know themselves.
One or two of the old barrows had been exposed over the years, their huge
stones attracting their own folklore. If you left your unshod horse at one
of them overnight and placed sixpence on the stone, in the morning the
sixpence would be gone and you'd never see your horse again, either...
Hodgesaargh was an original storyteller and quite good in a very specific
way. If he'd had to recount the saga of the Tsortean War, for example, it
would have been in terms of the birds observed, every cormorant noted,
every pelican listed, every battlefield raven taxonomically placed, no tern
unturned. Some men in armour would have been involved at some stage, but
only because the ravens were perching on them.
Fewer birds could sit more meekly than the Lancre wowhawk, or lappet-faced
worrier, a carnivore permanently on the lookout for the vegetarian option.
He was trying to find some help in the ancient military journals of General
Tacticus, whose intelligent campaigning had been so successful that he'd
lent his very name to the detailed prosecution of martial endeavour, and
had actually found a section headed What to Do If One Army Occupies a
Well-fortified and Superior Ground and the Other Does Not, but since the
first sentence read "Endeavour to be the one inside" he'd rather lost
heart.
- "Remember - that which does not kill us can only make us stronger."
- "And that which does kill us leaves us dead!"
Rincewind is one of those people who gets in the way of his own happiness.
If it was raining kisses he'd be the only person with an umbrella.
He was always at a loss when people acted like this. When machines went
funny you just oiled them or prodded them or, if nothing else worked, hit
them with a hammer. Nomes didn't respond well to this treatment.
"Nah," he said, eventually. "I've looked at the colours on flowers. They're
definitely built-in."
"There is nothing that can be in our way, for this is Jekub, that Laughs at
Barriers, and says brrm-brrm."
The trouble with having an open mind, of course, is that people will insist
on coming along and trying to put things in it.
- "Do you know, humans think the world was made by a sort of big human?"
- "Get away?"
- "It took a week."
- "I expect it had some help, then,' said Dorcas.
If broomsticks were cars, this one would be a split-window Morris Minor.
Still, it was a relief to get away from that macabre sight. Gander
considered that gnolls didn't look any better inside than out. He hated
their guts.
"While I'm still confused and uncertain, it's on a much higher plane, d'you
see, and at least I know I'm bewildered about the really fundamental and
important facts of the universe."
Treatle nodded. "I hadn't looked at it like that," he said, "But you're
absolutely right. He's really pushed back the boundaries of ignorance."
They both savoured the strange warm glow of being much more ignorant than
ordinary people, who were only ignorant of ordinary things.
They may have been ugly. they may have been evil. But when it came to
poetry in motion, the Things had all the grace and coordination of a
deck-chair.
"They say there's dwarf mines under the Ramtops," she said
inconsequentially. "My, but them little buggers is in for a surprise."
For animals, the entire universe has been neatly divided into things to
(a) mate with, (b) eat, (c) run away from, and (d) rocks.
No enemies had ever taken Ankh-Morpock. Well technically they had, quite
often; the city welcomed free-spending barbarian invaders, but somehow the
puzzled raiders found, after a few days, that they didn't own their horses
any more, and within a couple of months they were just another minority
group with its own graffiti and food shops.
Old Tom was the single cracked bronze bell in the University bell tower.
The clapper dropped out shortly after it was cast, but the bell still
tolled out some tremendously sonorous silences every hour.
Rincewind had been told that death was just like going into another room.
The difference is, when you shout, "Where's my clean socks?", no-one
answers.
It was true about the time measurement as well. The Tezumen had realized
long ago that everything was steadily getting worse and, having a terrible
little-mindedness, had developed a complex system to keep track of how much
worse each succeeding day was.
"These people were not only cheering, they were throwing flowers and hats.
The hats were made of stone, but the thought was there."
While working his way along a wall he came to a huge door, which
artistically portrayed a group of prisoners apparently being given a
complete medical check-up [footnote: From a distance it did, anyway.
Close to, no].
- "There's a door"
- "Where does it go?"
- "It stays where it is, I think."
The trouble is that things never get better, they just stay the same,
only more so.
- "So we're surrounded by absolutely nothing. There's a word for it. It's
   what you get when there's nothing left and everything's been used up."
- "Yes. I think it's called the bill."
- "What're quantum mechanics?"
- "I don't know. People who repair quantums, I suppose."
The librarian was, ex officio, a member of the college council. No-one had
been able to find any rule about orang-utans being barred, although they
had surreptiously looked very hard for one.
I HOPE WE ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE ANY OF THIS 'FOUL FIEND' BUSINESS AGAIN.
There had been some desultory talk about putting up a statue to Rincewind
but, by the curious alchemy that tends to apply in these sensitive issues,
this quickly became a plaque, then a note on the Roll of Honour, and
finally a motion of censure for being improperly dressed.
Any wizard bright enough to survive for five minutes was also bright enough
to realise that if there was any power in demonology, then it lay with the
demons. Using it for your own purposes would be like trying to beat mice to
death with a rattlesnake.
The gods of the Disc have never bothered much about judging the souls of
the dead, and so people only go to hell if that's where they believe, in
their deepest heart, that they deserve to go. Which they won't do if they
don't know about it. This explains why it is so important to shoot
missionaries on sight.
"You mean mysterious ancient races of Amazonian princesses who subject all
male prisoners to strange and exhausting progenitative rites?"  said Eric,
his glasses beginning to fog.
The consensus seemed to be that if really large numbers of men were sent to
storm the mountain, then enough might survive the rocks to take the
citadel. This is essentially the basis of all military thinking.
The sergeant put on the poker face which has been handed down from NCO to
NCO ever since one protoamphibian told another, lower ranking
protoamphibian to muster a squad of newts and Take That Beach.
- "What shall I do?"
- "Well, if you see anything crawl out of the sea and try to breathe,
   you could try telling it not to bother."
"Multiple exclamation marks," he went on, shaking his head, "are a sure
sign of a diseased mind."
The Supreme Life President of Hell wrote: "What business are we in???" He
thought for a bit, and then carefully wrote, underneath: "We are in the
damnation business!!!"
"Bingeley bingeley beep!"
He hated the very idea of the world being divided into the shaved and
the shavers. Or those who wore the shiny boots and those who cleaned the
mud off them. Every time he saw Willikins the butler fold his, Vimes's,
clothes, he suppressed a terrible urge to kick the butler's shiny backside
as an affront to the dignity of man.
I AM DEATH, NOT TAXES. I TURN UP ONLY ONCE.
Slab: Jus' say "AarrghaarrghpleeassennononoUGH"
And, while it was regarded as pretty good evidence of criminality to be
living in a slum, for some reason owning a whole street of them merely got
you invited to the very best social occasions.
There were no public health laws in Ankh-Morpork. It would be like
installing smoke detectors in Hell.
"Just because someone's a member of an ethnic minority doesn't mean they're
not a nasty small-minded little jerk"
You never ever volunteered. Not even if a sergant stood there and said, "We
need someone to drink alcohol, bottles of, and make love, passionate, to
women, for the use of." There was always a snag. If a choir of angels
asked for volunteers for Paradise to step forward, Nobby knew enough to
take one smart pace to the rear.
"Today Is A Good Day For Someone Else To Die!"
Rumour is information distilled so finely that it can filter through
anything. It does not need doors and windows - sometimes it does not need
people. It can exist free and wild, running from ear to ear without ever
touching lips.
In all, I've had seventeen demands for your badge. Some want parts of your
body attached. Why did you have to upset everybody?
It was Carrot who'd suggested to the Patrician that hardened criminals
should be given the chance to "serve the community" by redecorating the
homes of the elderly, lending a new terror to old age and, given
Ankh-Morpork's crime rate, leading to at least one old lady having her
front room wallpapered so many times in six months that now she could only
get in sideways.
It was hard enough to kill a vampire. You could stake them down and turn
them into dust and ten years later someone drops a drop of blood in the
wrong place and guess who's back? They returned more times than raw
broccoli.
Many people, meeting Aziraphale for the first time, formed three
impressions: that he was English, that he was intelligent, and that he was
gayer than a tree full of monkeys on nitrous oxide.
Kids! Bringing about Armageddon can be dangerous. Do not attempt it in
your home.
"You can't second-guess ineffability, I always say."
He was currently wondering vaguely who Moey and Chandon were.
He'd been particularly pleased with Manchester.
The only time Crowley had bought petrol was once in 1967, to get the free
James Bond bullet-hole-in-the-windscreen transfers, which he rather fancied
at the time.
He wondered reflectively what would happen if you asked a nun where the
Gents was. Probably the Pope sent you a sharp note or something.
Humans suffering from a conflict of signals aren't the best people to be
holding guns, especially when they've just witnessed a natural childbirth,
which definitely looked an un-American way of bringing new citizens into
the world.
Of course he was all in favour of Armageddon in general terms.
"You see a wile, you thwart. Am I right?"
On those occasions when the angel managed to get his mind into the
twentieth century, it always gravitated to 1950.
They drove back through the dawn, while the cassette player played J. S.
Bach's Mass in B Minor, vocals by F. Mercury.
"Art thou a witch, viva espana?"
Anathema didn't only believe in ley-lines, but in seals, whales, bicycles,
rainforests, whole grain in loves, recycled paper, white South Africans out
of South Africa, and Americans out of practically everywhere down to and
including Long Island.
English Burger Lords managed to take any American fast food virtues (the
speed with which your food was delivered, for example) and carefully remove
them; your food arrived after half an hour, at room temperature, and it was
only because of the strip of warm lettuce between them that you could
distinguish the burger from the bun. The Burger Lord pathfinder salesmen
had been shot 25 minutes after setting foot in France.
Shadwell hated all southerners and, by inference, was standing at the
North Pole.
DON'T THINK OF IT AS DYING, said Death. JUST THINK OF IT AS LEAVING
EARLY TO AVOID THE RUSH.
The Kappamaki, a whaling research ship, was currently researching the
question: How many whales can you catch in one week?
The kraken stirs. And ten billion sushi dinners cry out for vengeance.
"?" he said.
Madame Tracy had even removed most of the Major Arcana from her Tarot card
pack, because their appearance tended to upset people.
I DON'T CARE WHAT IT SAYS, said the tall biker in the helmet, I NEVER LAID
A FINGER ON HIM.
Voodoo is a very interesting religion for the whole family, even those
members of it who are dead.
    "Jesus won't cut you off before you're through
    With him you won't never get a crossed line,
    And when your bill comes it'll all be properly itemised
    He's the telephone repairman on the switchboard of my life.
    
    The phone line to the saviour's always free of interference
    He's in at any hour, day or night
    And when you call J-E-S-U-S you always call toll-free
    He's the telephone repairman on the switchboard of my life."
- "ALL YOU CAN HOPE FOR IS THE MERCY OF HELL."
- "Yeah?"
- "JUST OUR LITTLE JOKE."
- "Ngk," said Crowley.
Death and Famine and War and Pollution continued biking towards Tadfield.
And Grievous Bodily Harm, Cruelty To Animals, Things Not Working Properly
Even After You've Given Them A Good Thumping but secretly No Alcohol Lager,
and Really Cool People travelled with them.
Thud. Thud. Thud. Splat.
"Did any of them kids have some space alien with a face like a friendly
turd in a bike basket?"
Along with the standard computer warranty agreement which said that if the
machine 1) didn't work, 2) didn't do what the expensive advertisement said,
3) electrocuted the immediate neighbourhood, 4) and in fact failed entirely
to be inside the expensive box when you opened it, this was expressly,
absolutely, implicitly and in no event the fault or responsibility of the
manufacturer, that the purchaser should consider himself lucky to be
allowed to give his money to the manufacturer, and that any attempt to
treat what had just been paid for as the purchaser's own property would
result in the attentions of serious men with menacing briefcases and very
thin watches.
Crowley had been extremely impressed with the warranties offered by the
computer industry, and had in fact sent a bundle Below to the department
that drew up the Immortal Soul agreements, with a yellow memo form attached
just saying: "Learn, guys."
R. P. Tyler was not, however, satisfied simply with being vouchsafed the
difference between right and wrong. He felt it his bounden duty to tell the world.
"This isn't how I imagined it, chaps," said War. "I haven't been waiting
for thousands of years just to fiddle around with bits of wire. It's not
what you'd call dramatic. Albrecht Duerer didn't waste his time doing
woodcuts of the Four Button-Pressers of the Apocalypse, I do know that."
"I don't see why it matters what is written. Not when it's about people.
It can always be crossed out."
In the Beginning
It was a nice day.
If you take the small view, the universe is just something small and round,
like those water-filled balls which produce a miniature snowstorm when you
shake them. Although, unless the ineffable plan is a lot more ineffable
than it's given credit for, it does not have a large plastic snowman at the
bottom.
- "You're Hells Angels, then? What chapter are you from?"
- REVELATIONS, CHAPTER SIX.
The lorry blocked the road. And the corrugated iron blocked the road. And a
thirty-foot-high pile of fish blocked the road. It was one of the most
effectively blocked roads the sergeant had ever seen.
Crowley was in Hell's bad books. Not that Hell has any other kind.
God does not play dice with the universe: He plays an ineffable game of His
own devising, which might be compared, from the perspective of any of the
other players [i.e. everybody], to being involved in an obscure and complex
variant of poker in a pitch-dark room, with blank cards, for infinite
stakes, with a Dealer who won't tell you the rules, and who smiles all the
time.
It wasn't a dark and stormy night.
It should have been, but there's the weather for you. For every mad
scientist who's had a convenient thunderstorm just on the night his Great
Work is complete and lying on the slab, there have been dozens who've sat
around aimlessly under the peaceful stars while Igor clocks up the
overtime.
Many phenomena - wars, plagues, sudden audits - have been advanced as
evidence for the hidden hand of Satan in the affairs of Man, but whenever
students of demonology get together the M25 London orbital motorway is
generally agreed to be among the top contenders for exhibit A.
Sister Mary headed through the night-time hospital with the Adversary,
Destroyer of Kings, Angel of the Bottomless Pit, Great Beast that is called
Dragon, Prince of This World, Father of Lies, Spawn of Satan and Lord of
Darkness safely in her arms. She found a bassinet and laid him down in it.
He gurgled. She gave him a tickle.
Mr Young hadn't had to quiet a screaming baby for years. He'd never been
much good at it to start with. He'd always respected Sir Winston Churchill,
and patting small versions of him on the bottom had always seemed
ungracious.
The ducks in St James's Park are so used to being fed bread by secret
agents meeting clandestinely that they have developed their own Pavlovian
reaction. Put a St James's Park duck in a laboratory cage and show it a
picture of two men - one usually wearing a coat with a fur collar, the
other something sombre with a scarf - and it'll look up expectantly.
A man threw himself through the window, a knife between his teeth, a
Kalashnikov automatic rifle in one hand, a grenade in the other. "I glaim
gis oteg in der gaing og der -" he paused. He tooke the knife out of his
teeth and began again.
- "Surely you have considered terrorist activity?"
There was another pause. Then the spokesman said, in the quiet tones of
someone who has had enough and who is going to quit after this and raise
chickens somewhere, "Yes, I suppose we must. All we need to do is find some
terrorists who are capable of taking an entire nuclear reactor out of its
can while it's running and without anyone noticing. It weighs about a
thousand tons and is forty feet high. So they'll be quite strong
terrorists. Perhaps you'd like to ring them up, sir, and ask them questions
in that supercilious, accusatory way of yours."
Jaime had never realised that trees made a sound when they grew, and no-one
else had realised it either, because the sound is made over hundreds of
years in waves of twenty-four hours from peak to peak. Speed it up, and
the sound a tree makes is vrooom.
... walking like a man carrying a thermos flask of something that might
cause, if he dropped it or even thought about dropping it, the sort of
explosion that impels grey-beards to make statements like "And where this
crater is now, once stood the city of Wah-Shing-Ton", in SF B-movies.
She'd stopped reading the kind of women's magazine that talked about
romance and knitting and started reading the kind of women's magazine that
talked about orgasms, but apart from making a mental note to have one if
ever the occasion presented itself she dismissed them as only romance and
knitting in a new form.
"a number of offences of murder by means of a blunt instrument, to
whit, a dragon, and many further offences of generalized abetting"
"Have another drink, not-Corporal Nobby?" said Sergeant Colon unsteadily.
"I do not mind if I do, not-Sgt Colon," said Nobby.
"'E's fighting in there!" he stuttered, grabbing the captain's arm.
"All by himself?" said the captain.
"No, with everyone!" shouted Nobby, hopping from one foot to the other.
A good bookshop is just a genteel Black Hole that knows how to read.
There was a thoughtful pause in the conversation as the assembled Brethren
mentally divided the universe into the deserving and the undeserving, and
put themselves on the appropriate side.
All dwarfs have beards and wear up to twelve layers of clothing.
Gender is more or less optional.
All dwarfs are by nature dutiful, serious, literate, obedient and
thoughtful people whose only minor failing is a tendency, after one drink,
to rush at enemies screaming "Arrrrrrgh!" and axing their legs off at the
knee.
People who are rather more than six feet tall and nearly as broad across
the shoulders often have uneventful journeys. People jump out at them from
behind rocks then say things like, "Oh. Sorry. I thought you were someone
else."
He nodded to the troll which was employed by the Drum as a splatter
[footnote: Like a bouncer, but trolls use more force].
It was possibly the most circumspect advance in the history of military
manoeuvres, right down at the bottom end of the scale that things like the
Charge of the Light Brigade are at the top of.
Lady Ramkin's bosom rose and fell like an empire.
It's a metaphor of human bloody existence, a dragon. And if that wasn't bad
enough, it's also a bloody great hot flying thing.
The three rules of the Librarians of Time and Space are: 1) Silence; 2)
Books must be returned no later than the date last shown; and 3) Do not
interfere with the nature of causality.
A number of religions in Ankh-Morpork still practiced human sacrifice,
except that they didn't really need to practice any more because they had
got so good at it.
Thunder rolled. ... It rolled a six.
"Right, you bastards, you're... you're geography"
"The significant owl hoots in the night."
"Real children don't go hoppity-skip unless they are on drugs."
Getting an education was a bit like a communicable sexual disease. It made
you unsuitable for a lot of jobs and then you had the urge to pass it on.
She'd become a governess. It was one of the few jobs a known lady could do.
And she'd taken to it well. She'd sworn that if she did indeed ever find
herself dancing on rooftops with chimney sweeps she'd beat herself to death
with her own umbrella.
"ER...HO. HO. HO."
This is very similar to the suggestion put forward by the Quirmian
philosopher Ventre, who said, "Possibly the gods exist, and possibly they
do not. So why not believe in them in any case? If it's all true you'll go
to a lovely place when you die, and if it isn't then you've lost nothing,
right?" When he died he woke up in a circle of gods holding nasty-looking
sticks and one of them said, "We're going to show you what we think of Mr
Clever Dick in these parts..."
Biers was where the undead drank. And when Igor the barman was asked for a
Bloody Mary, he didn't mix a metaphor.
"Did you check the list?"
YES. TWICE. ARE YOU SURE THAT'S ENOUGH?
"That statement is either so deep it would take a lifetime to fully
comprehend every particle of its meaning, or it is a load of absolute tosh.
Which is it, I wonder?"
"Real stupidity beats artificial intelligence every time."
Glingleglingleglingle.
Everything starts somewhere, though many physicists disagree. But people
have always been dimly aware of the problem with the start of things. They
wonder how the snowplough driver gets to work, or how the makers of
dictionaries look up the spelling of words.
We took pity on him because he'd lost both parents at an early age. I think
that, on reflection, we should have wondered a bit more about that.
It's a sad and terrible thing that high-born folk really have thought that
the servants would be totally fooled if spirits were put into decanters
that were cunningly labelled backwards. And also throughout history the
more politically conscious butler has taken it on trust, and with rather
more justification, that his employers will not notice if the whisky is
topped up with eniru.
The truth may be out there, but lies are inside your head.
+++ Divide By Cucumber Error. Please Reinstall Universe And Reboot +++
"Millennium hand and shrimp."
Rincewind could scream for mercy in nineteen languages, and just scream in
another forty-four.
After the stampede the artist Three Solid Frogs got to his feet, retrieved
his brush from his nostril, pulled his easel out of a tree, and tried to
think placid thoughts.
Just because it's not nice doesn't mean it's not miraculous.
++?????++ Out of Cheese Error. Redo From Start.
"Luck is my middle name," said Rincewind, indistinctly. "Mind you, my first
name is Bad."
Natural selection saw to it that professional heroes who at a crucial
moment tended to ask themselves questions like "What is my purpose in
life?" very quickly lacked both.
The Emperor had all the qualifications for a corpse except, as it were, the
most vital one.
"I know about people who talk about suffering for the common good. It's
never bloody them! When you hear a man shouting "Forward, brave comrades!"
you'll see he's the one behind the bloody big rock and the one wearing the
only really arrow-proof helmet!"
Many an ancient lord's last words had been, "You can't kill me because I've
got magic aaargh."
Vimes's grin was as funny as the one that moves very fast towards
drowning men. And has a fin on top.
"Taxation, gentlemen, is very much like dairy farming. The task is to
extract the maximum amount of milk with the minimum of moo. And I am afraid
to say that these days all I get is moo."
She sighed again. She was familiar with the syndrome. They said they
wanted a soulmate and helpmeet but sooner or later the list would include
a skin like silk and a chest fit for a herd of cows.
One of the universal rules of happiness is: always be wary of any helpful
item that weighs less than its operating manual.
"Give a man a fire and he's warm for a day, but set fire to him and he's
warm for the rest of his life."
And there was nothing finer than a wizard dressed up formally, until
someone could find a way of inflating a Bird of Paradise, possibly by using
an elastic band and some kind of gas.
"'Chapter Fifteen, Elementary Necromancy'", she read out loud. "'Lesson
One: Correct Use of Shovel...'"
"One o'clock pee em! Hello, Insert Name Here!"
He had the look of a lawn mower just after the grass had organised a
workers' collective. There was a definite suggestion that, deep inside, he
knew this was not really happening. It could not be happening because this
sort of thing did not happen. Any contradictory evidence could be safely
ignored.
It was so much easier to blame it on Them. It was bleakly depressing to
think that They were Us. If it was Them, then nothing was anyone's fault.
If it was us, what did that make Me? After all, I'm one of Us. I must be.
I've certainly never thought of myself as one of Them. No one ever thinks
of themselves as one of Them. We're always one of Us. It's Them that do the
bad things.
Bigmac wasn't an athlete. If there was an Olympic Sick Note event, he
would've won the 100 metres I've Got Asthma, the half marathon Lurk in the
Changing Rooms, and the freestyle Got to Go to the Doctor.
"Is that you?" said a female voice. It wasn't exactly an unpleasant one,
but it had a sharp penetrating quality. It seemed to be saying that if you
weren't you, then it was your fault. Johnny recognized it instantly. It
was the voice of someone who dialled the wrong numbers and then complained
that the phone was answered by people she didn't want to speak to.
When all else failed, she tried being reasonable.
"You're not allowed to call them dinosaurs anymore." said Yo-less. "It's
speciesist. You have to call them pre-petroleum persons."
No-one liked the Joshua N'Clement block. There were two schools of
thought about what should be done with it. The people who lived there
thought everyone should be taken out en then the block should be blown up,
and the people who lived near the block just wanted it blown up.
There was a new library in the Civic Centre. It was so new it didn't even
have librarians. It had Assistant Information Officers.
Johnny had seen films of American shopping malls. They must have different
sorts of people in America, he'd thought. They all looked cool, all the
girls were beautiful, and the place wasn't crowded with little kamikaze
grandmothers.
"You've got a lot of time for abstract thought when you've got your hand
stuck up a dead badger."
The figures the telescope was producing were all that was left of an
exploding star twenty million years ago. A billion small rubbery things on
two planets who had been getting on with life in a quiet sort of way had
been totally destroyed, but they were certainly helping Adrian get his
Ph.D. and, who knows, they might have thought it all worthwhile if anyone
had asked them.
"I believe it's very hard to have fun in Iceland without fish being
involved in some way."
- "America?" said Mrs Liberty. "Won't we get scalped?"
- "Good grief, no!" said William Stickers, who was a bit more up to date
   about the world.
- "Probably not," said Mr Fletcher, who had been watching the news lately
   and was even more up to date than William Stickers.
Sergeant Comely was working on the general assumption that where you got
lots of people gathered together, something illegal was bound to happen
sooner or later.
Mrs. Nugent was the Johnson's next door neighbour, and known to be
unreasonable on subjects like Madonna played at full volume at 3 a.m.
"Why bother with such a big stone arch?"
"It's just showing off. There's probably a sticker on the back saying 'My
Other Grave Is A Porch'".
Granddad was superstitious about books. He thought that if you had enough
of them around, education leaked out, like radioactivity.
"Are you a physicist?"
"Me? I don't know anything about science!"
"Marvellous! Ideal qualification!"
Suicide was against the law. Johnny had wondered why. It meant that if you
missed, or the gas ran out, or the rope broke, you could get locked up in
prison to show you that life was really very jolly and thoroughly worth
living.
The Librarian looked out at the jolting scenery. He was sulking. This had
a lot to do with the new bright collar around his neck with the word
"PONGO" on it. Someone was going to suffer for this.
"Oook!"
"Oook?"
"Kneel and deliver!"
I MUST SAY THESE ARE VERY GOOD BISCUITS. HOW DO THEY GET THE BITS OF
CHOCOLATE IN?
Nanny Ogg never did any housework herself, but she was the cause of
housework in other people.
Verence would rather cut his own leg off than put a witch in prison, since
it'd save trouble in the long run and probably be less painful.
I LIKE TO THINK I AM A PICKER-UP OF UNCONSIDERED TRIFLES. Death grinned
hopefully.
Mustrum Ridcully did a lot for rare species. For one thing, he kept
them rare.
Using a metaphor in front of a man as unimaginative as Ridcully was like a
red flag to a bu- was like putting something very annoying in front of
someone who was annoyed by it.
The thing about iron is that you generally don't have to think fast in
dealing with it.
Nanny Ogg looked under her bed in case there was a man there. Well, you
never knew your luck.
The chieftain had been turned into a pumpkin although, in accordance with
the rules of universal humour, he still had his hat on.
For Magrat, stepping into a man's bedroom was like an explorer stepping on
to that part of the map marked Here Be Dragons.
"I wants your body, Mrs Ogg."
"I know she's in there," said Verence, holding his crown in his hands in
the famous Ai-Senor-Mexican-Bandits-Have-Raided-Our-Village position.
In fact, the mere act of opening the box will determine the state of the
cat, although in this case there were three determinate states the cat
could be in: these being Alive, Dead, and Bloody Furious.
The shortest unit of time in the multiverse is the New York Second, defined
as the period of time between the traffic lights turning green and the cab
behind you honking.
"Serve 'em right for not inviting me to their weddings."
"Hah, I can just see a real playsmith putting donkeys in a play!"
"Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards, especially simian ones. They are
not all that subtle."
"Go ahead, bake my quiche"
In the Beginning there was nothing, which exploded.
There have, in the course of decadent history, been many large wigs, often
with build-in gewgaws to stop people having to look at boring hair all the
time. There had been ones big enough to contain pet mice or clockwork
ornaments. Mme Cupidor, mistress of Mad King Soup II, had one with a bird
cage in it, but on special state occasions wore one containing a perpetual
calendar, a floral clock and a take-away linguini shop.
The place looked as though it had been visited by Gengiz Cohen [footnote:
hence the term "wholesale destruction"].
"This is a lovely party," said the Bursar to a chair, "I wish I was here."
No matter what she did with her hair it took about three minutes for it to
tangle itself up again, like a garden hosepipe in a shed [Which, no matter
how carefully coiled, will always uncoil overnight and tie the lawnmower to
the bicycles].
He married that Palliard girl, remember? The one with the air-cooled teeth?
And the child had a permanently runny nose and ought to be provided with a
handkerchief or, failing that, a cork.
It was here that the thaum, hitherto believed to be the smallest possible
particle of magic, was succesfully demonstrated to be made up of /resons/
(Lit.: 'Thing-ies') or reality fragments. Currently research indicates that
each reson is itself made up of a combination of at least five 'flavours',
known as 'up', 'down', 'sideways', 'sex appeal' and 'peppermint'.
A heap of discarded garments by the bed suggested that Verence had mastered
the art of hanging up clothes as practised by half the population of the
world, and that he had equally had difficulty with the complex topological
manoeuvres necessary to turn the socks the right way out.
Chain-mail isn't much defence against an arrow. It certainly isn't when the
arrow is being aimed between your eyes.
It's not enough to be able to pick up a sword. You have to know which end to
poke into the enemy.
The Monks of Cool, whose tiny and exclusive monastery is hidden in a really
cool and laid-back valley in the lower Ramtops, have a passing-out test for a
novice. He is taken into a room full of all types of clothing and asked: Yo,
my son, which of these is the most stylish thing to wear? And the correct
answer is: Hey, whatever I select.
The person on the other side was a young woman. Very obviously a young
woman. There was no possible way that she could have been mistaken for a
young man in any language, especially Braille.
Nanny Ogg found herself embarrassed to even think about this, and this was
unusual because embarrassment normally came as naturally to Nanny as
altruism comes to a cat.
People who didn't need people needed people around to know that they were
the kind of people who didn't need people.
He had a unique stride: it looked as though his body was being dragged
forward and his legs had to flail around underneath it, landing wherever
they could find room. It wasn't so much a walk as a collapse, indefinitely
postponed.
She'd even given herself a middle initial - X - which stood for "someone
who has a cool and exciting middle name".
"What sort of person," said Salzella patiently, "sits down and writes a
maniacal laugh? And all those exclamation marks, you notice? Five? A sure
sign of someone who wears his underpants on his head. Opera can do that to
a man."
"The singers all loathe the sight of one another, the chorus despises the
singers, they both hate the orchestra, and everyone fears the conductor;
the staff on one prompt side won't talk to the staff on the opposite prompt
side, the dancers are all crazed from hunger in any case..."
Most people in Lancre, as the saying goes, went to bed with the chickens
and got up with the cows. [footnote: Er. That is to say, they went to bed
at the same time as the chickens went to bed, and got up at the same time
as the cows got up. Loosely worded sayings can really cause
misunderstandings.]
"...my father is the Emperor of Klatch and my mother is a small tray of
raspberry puddings."
Instead, people would take pains to tell her that beauty was only
skin-deep, as if a man ever fell for an attractive pair of kidneys.
A day ago the future had looked aching and desolate, and now it looked full
of surprises and terror and bad things happening to people... If she had
anything to do with it anyway.
- "There have been...accidents."
- "What kind of accidents?"
- "The kind of accidents you prefer to call... accidents."
- "But I don't believe in reincarnation!" he protested.
- SQUEAK.
- And this, Mr Pounder understood with absolute rodent clarity, meant:
  Reincarnation believes in you.
It was done far more often than the audiences ever realized - when singers
had a sore throat, or had completely dried, or had turned up so drunk they
could barely stand, or, in one notorious instance many years previously,
had died in the interval and subsequently sung their famous aria by means
of a broom-handle stuck up their back and their jaw operated with a piece
of string.
After you'd known Christine for any length of time, you found yourself
fighting a desire to look into her ear to see if you could spot daylight
coming the other way.
"Well, basically there are two sorts of opera,' said Nanny, who also had
the true witch's ability to be confidently expert on the basis of no
experience whatsoever. 'There's your heavy opera, where basically people
sing foreign and it goes like "Oh oh oh, I am dyin', oh, I am dyin', oh,
oh, oh, that's what I'm doin'", and there's your light opera, where they
sing in foreign and it basically goes "Beer! Beer! Beer! Beer! I like to
drink lots of beer!", although sometimes they drink champagne instead.
That's basically all of opera, reely."
No male had ever touched Agnes before, except perhaps to push her over and
steal her sweets.
The pre-luncheon drinks were going quite well, Mr Bucket thought. Everyone
was making polite conversation and absolutely no one had been killed up to
the present moment.
Nanny could get a statue to cry on her shoulder and say what it really
thought about pigeons.
Greebo could, in fact, commit sexual harrassment simply by sitting very
quietly in the next room.
It is the fate of all banisters worth sliding down that there is something
nasty waiting at the far end.
If the Creator had said, "Let there be light" in Ankh-Morpork, he'd have
gotten no further because of all the people saying "What colour?"
From the back, Vetinari looked like a carnivorous flamingo.
Cuddy had only been a guard for a few days, but already he had absorbed one
important and basic fact: it is almost impossible for anyone to be in a
street without breaking the law.
The Battle of Koom Valley is the only one known to history where both sides
ambushed each other.
Carrot was two metres tall but he'd been brought up as a dwarf, and then
further up as a human.
"Young Edward thinks that there is no lake of blood too big to wade through
to put a rightful king on a throne, no deed too base in defence of a crown.
A romantic, in fact."
The Ramkins were more highly bred than a hilltop bakery, whereas Corporal
Nobbs had been disqualified from the human race for shoving.
He was said to have the body of a twenty-five year old, although no one
knew where he kept it.
"Pride is all very well, but a sausage is a sausage."
The river Ankh is probably the only river in the universe on which the
investigators can chalk the outline of the corpse.
The Alchemist's Guild is opposite the Gambler's Guild. Usually. Sometimes
it's above it, or below it, or falling in bits around it.
Sham Harga had run a succesful eatery for many years by always smiling,
never extending credit, and realizing that most of his customers wanted
meals properly balanced between the four food groups: sugar, starch, grease
and burnt crunchy bits.
The Patrician relaxed, in a way which only then drew gentle attention to
the foregoing moment of tension.
Sometimes it's better to light a flamethrower than curse the darkness.
Being a werewolf meant having the dexterity and jaw power to instantly rip
out a man's jugular. It was a trick of her father's that had always annoyed
her mother, especially when he did it just before meals.
The door was still ajar, but there was a tentative tap on it which said, in
a kind of metaphorical morse code, that the tapper could see very well that
Carrot was in his room with a scantily clad woman and was trying to knock
without actually being heard.
"It's got three keyboards and a hundred extra knobs, including twelve with
'?' on them."
The Librarian of Unseen University had unilaterally decided to aid
comprehension by producing an Orang-utan/Human Dictionary. He'd been
working on it for three months. It wasn't easy. He'd got as far as "Oook".
- "It could be a torture chamber or a dungeon or a hideous pit or anything!"
- "It's just a student's bedroom, sergeant."
- "You see?"
The maze was so small that people got lost looking for it.
"It would seem that you have no useful skill or talent whatsoever," he
said. "Have you thought of going into teaching?"
Only one creature could have duplicated the expressions on their faces, and
that would be a pigeon who has heard not only that Lord Nelson has got down
off his column but has also been seen buying a 12-bore repeater and a box
of cartridges.
- "My granny says that dying is like going to sleep," Mort added, a shade
   hopefully.
- I WOULDN'T KNOW. I HAVE DONE NEITHER.
- "Pardon me for living, I'm sure."
- NO-ONE GETS PARDONED FOR LIVING.
Although the scythe isn't pre-eminent among the weapons of war, anyone who
has been on the wrong end of, say, a peasants' revolt will know that in
skilled hands it is fearsome.
"Do not meddle in the affairs of wizards because a refusal often offends,
I read somewhere."
"When a man is tired of Ankh-Morpork, he is tired of ankle-deep slurry."
The only things known to go faster than ordinary light is monarchy,
according to the philosopher Ly Tin Weedle. He reasoned like this: you
can't have more than one king, and tradition demands that there is no gap
between kings, so when a king dies the succession must therefore pass to
the heir instantaneously. Presumably, he said, there must be some
elementary particles - kingons, or possibly queons - that do this job,
but of course succession sometimes fails if, in mid-flight, they strike an
anti-particle, or republicon. His ambitious plans to use his discovery to
send messages, involving the careful torturing of a small king in order to
modulate the signal, were never fully expanded because, at that point, the
bar closed.
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT YOU, he said, BUT I COULD MURDER A CURRY.
Poets have tried to describe Ankh-Morpork. They have failed. Perhaps it's
the sheer zestful vitality of the place, or maybe it's just that a city
with a million inhabitants and no sewers is rather robust for poets, who
prefer daffodils and no wonder.
It is a fact that although the Death of the Discworld is, in his own words,
an ANTHROPOMORPHIC PERSONIFICATION, he long ago gave up using the
traditional skeletal horses, because of the bother of having to stop all
the time to wire bits back on.
"You're dead," he said. Keli waited. She couldn't think of any suitable
reply. "I'm not" lacked a certain style, while "Is it serious?" seemed
somehow too frivolous.
The thing between Death's triumphant digits was a fly from the dawn of
time. It was the fly in the primordial soup. It had bred on mammoth
turds. It wasn't a fly that bangs on window panes, it was a fly that
drills through walls.
Ankh-Morpork had dallied with many forms of government and had ended up
with that form of democracy known as One Man, One Vote. The Patrician was
the Man; he had the Vote.
- I USHERED SOULS INTO THE NEXT WORLD. I WAS THE GRAVE OF ALL HOPE. I
  WAS THE ULTIMATE REALITY. I WAS THE ASSASSIN AGAINST WHOM NO LOCK
  WOULD HOLD.
- "Yes, point taken, but do you have any particular skills?"
- "Sodomy non sapiens," said Albert under his breath.
- "What does that mean?"
- "Means I'm buggered if I know."
Women's clothes were not a subject that preoccupied Cutwell much - in
fact, usually when he thought about women his mental pictures seldom
included any clothes at all - but the vision in front of him really did
take his breath away.
"You won't get away with this," said Cutwell. He thought for a bit and
added, "Well, you will probably get away with it, but you'll feel bad about
it on your deathbed and you'll wish - "
He stopped talking.
"What do people like to drink here, then?"
The landlord looked sideways at his customers, a clever trick given that
they were directly in front of him.
"You like it?" he said to Mort, in pretty much the same tone of voice
people used when they said to St George, "You killed a what?"
The Librarian had seen many weird things in his time, but that had to be
the 57th strangest. [footnote: he had a tidy mind]
"Woof bloody woof."
No-one would have believed, in the final years of the Century of the
Fruitbat, that Discworld affairs were being watched keenly and impatiently
by intelligences greater than Man's, or at least much nastier; that their
affairs were being scrutinised and studied as a man with a three-day
appetite might study the All-You-Can-Gobble-For-A-Dollar menu outside
Harga's House of Ribs...
It was the sort of thing you expected in the Street of Alchemists. The
neighbours preferred explosions, which were at least identifiable and
soon over. They were better than the smells, which crept up on you.
"Meat pies! Hot sausages! Inna bun! So fresh the pig h'an't noticed they're
gone!"
The Archchancellor's most important job, as the Bursar saw it, was to sign
things, preferably, from the Bursar's point of view, without reading them
first.
By and large, the only skill the alchemists of Ankh-Morpork had discovered
so far was the ability to turn gold into less gold.
Most alchemists were nervous, in any case; it came from not knowing what
the crucible of bubbling stuff they were experimenting with was going to do
next.
"If you put butter and salt on it, it tastes like salty butter."
"Students?" barked the Archchancellor.
"Yes, Master. You know? They're the thinner ones with the pale faces?
Because we're a university? They come with the whole thing, like rats -"
Of course, it is very important to be sober when you take an exam.
Many worthwhile careers in the street-cleansing, fruit-picking and
subway-guitar-playing industries have been founded on a lack of
understanding of this simple fact.
And then you bit onto them, and learned once again that Cut-me-own-Throat
Dibbler could find a use for bits of an animal that the animal didn't know
it had got. Dibbler had worked out that with enough fried onions and
mustard people would eat anything.
"The thing is that Mr. Dibbler can even sell sausages to people who have
bought them off him before."
- "You pay for it before you eat it? What happens if it's dreadful?"
- "That's why."
"One minute I'm just another rabbit and happy about it, next minute
whazaam, I'm thinking. That's a major drawback if you're looking for
happiness as a rabbit, let me tell you. You want grass and sex, not
thoughts like 'What's it all about, when you get right down to it?'"
"I'm a cat person, myself," she said, vaguely. A low-level voice said:
"Yeah? Yeah? Wash in your own spit, do you?"
"Why's it called Ming?" said the Archchancellor, on cue.
The Bursar tapped the pot. It went ming.
- "I thought swords had to be straight."
- "Perhaps they start out straight and go bendy with use. A lot of things
  do."
Azhural raised his staff. "It's fifteen hundred miles to Ankh-Morpork," he
said. "We've got three hundred and sixty-three elephants, fifty carts of
forage, the monsoon's about to break and we're wearing... we're wearing...
sort of things, like glass, only dark... dark glass things on our eyes..."
People who used magic without knowing what they were doing usually came to
a sticky end. All over the entire room, sometimes.
"He's in love," said Gaspode. "It's very tricky."
"Yeah, I know how it is," said the cat sympathetically. "People throwing
old boots and things at you."
"In a word - im-possible!"
"That's two words," said Dibbler.
"I'm vice-president of Throwing Out People Mr Dibbler Doesn't like the
Face of."
- "It looks worse than you can imagine!"
- "I can imagine some pretty bad things!"
- "That's why I said worse!"
"Woof?"
"Could have bin worse, mister. I could have said 'miaow'."
"Worlds only harmonica-playing dog. Tuppence."
"Seems I can't get me 'ead down these days without rescuin' people or
foilin' robbers or sunnink."
"How's he in the mysterious senses department?"
"Walk a mile on these paws and call me a liar."
"Woof. In tones of low menace."
"There's nothin' wrong with bein' a son of a bitch."
"I thought it was going to be bucket-of-water time myself."
"I can explain it in Dog, but you only listen in Human."
"I mean are we talking Thicko City here or what?"
"I wouldn't give it to a dog, and I am one."
"Does that look like ten per cent to you, Victor?"
"... Percy the Pup here with a cold nose, bright eyes, glossy coat and
the brains of a stunned herring."
"Maybe you should loosen her clothing or something."
"I could send you a bone with a file in it, only you'd eat it."
"Well, 'scuse me. I was jus' tryin' to save the world."
"If gharstely creatures from before the Dawna Time starts wavin' at you
from under your bed, jus' you don't come complainin' to me,"
"Idiot I may be, but tied up I ain't."
"And Howondaland Smith, Balrog Hunter, practic'ly eats the dark for
his tea."
"Messin' around with girls in thrall to Creatures from the Void never works
out, take my word for it."
"Growl, growl."
"I can bite your leg if you like."
"I expect I've saved the day, right?"
"Can't sing. Can't dance. Can handle a sword a little."
"Did I hear things, or can that little dog speak?" said Dibbler.
"He says he can't," said Victor. Dibbler hesitated.
"Well," he said, "I suppose he should know."
In retrospect, Victor was always a little unclear about those next few
minutes. That's the way it goes. The moments that change your life are
the ones that happen suddenly, like the one where you die.
"When Mister Safety Catch Is Not On, Mister Crossbow Is Not Your Friend."
He hated being thought of as one of those people that wore stupid
ornamental armour. It was gilt by association.
"Don't put your trust in revolutions. They always come around again.
That's why they're called revolutions. People die, and nothing changes."
The Assassin moved quietly from roof to roof until he was well away from
the excitement around the Watch House.
His movements could be called cat-like, except that he did not stop to
spray urine up against things.
No-one could sit in that chair. It was full of old T-shirts and books and
supper plates and junk. There was a deep sock layer and possibly the Lost
Strawberry Yoghurt. No-one could sit down there without special equipment.
One day, if he could master GCSE maths and reliably pick up a soldering iron
by the end that wasn't hot, he was going to be a Big Man in computers.
"I saw a film where there was an alien crawling around inside a spaceship's
air ducts and it could come out wherever it liked," said Johnny
reproachfully.
"Doubtless it had a map," said the Captain.
Basically, there were two sides to the world. There was the entire computer
games software industry engaged in a tremendous effort to stamp out piracy,
and there was Wobbler. Currently, Wobbler was in front.
Wobbler had written an actual computer game like this once. It was called
"Journey to Alpha Centauri". It was a screen with some dots on it.
Because, he said, it happened in real time, which no-one had ever heard
of until computers. He'd seen on TV that it took three thousand years to
get to Alpha Centauri. He had written it so that if anyone kept their
computer on for three thousand years, they'd be rewarded by a little dot
appearing in the middle of the screen, and then a message saying, "Welcome
to Alpha Centauri. Now go home."
Wobbler thought that California was where good people went when they died.
If Not You, Who Else?
"We got a talk about it at school. There's lots of stuff most girls can't
do, but you've got to pretend they can, so that more of them will."
Bigmac's brother was reliably believed to be in the job of moving video
recorders around in an informal way.
He microwaved himself something called a Pour-On Genuine Creole Lasagne,
which said it served four portions. It did if you were dwarfs.
On Earth, No-one Can Hear You Say "Um".
"Stuck? You're an alien," said Johnny. "Aliens don't get stuck in
air ducts. It's practically a well-known fact."
"If we find a cat I'm going to kick it!"
What our ancestors would really be thinking, if they were alive today,
is: "Why is it so dark in here?"
All assassins had a full-length mirror in their rooms, because it would be
a terrible insult to anyone to kill them when you were badly dressed.
"Ibid you already know."
The Ephebians made wine out of anything they could put in a bucket, and ate
anything that couldn't climb out of one.
Nature abhors dimensional abnormalities, and seals them neatly away so that
they don't upset people. Nature, in fact, abhors a lot of things, including
vacuums, ships called the "Marie Celeste", and the chuck keys for electric
drills.
There was not a lot that could be done to make Morpork a worse place. A
direct hit by a meteorite, for example, would count as gentrification.
- "Therefore I will have dinner sent in," said the priest. "It will be
   roast chicken."
- "I hate chicken."
Dios smiled. "No sire. On wednesdays the King always enjoys chicken, sire."
"What is this thing, anyway?" said the Dean, inspecting the implement in
his hands.
"It's called a shovel," said the Senior Wrangler. "I've seen the gardeners
use them. You stick the sharp end in the ground. Then it gets a bit
technical."
No one was avoiding him, it was just that an apparent random Brownian
motion was gently moving everyone away.
"Dock-a-loodle-fod!"
People have believed for hundreds of years that newts in a well mean that
the water's fresh and drinkable, and in all that time never asked
themselves whether the newts got out to go to the lavatory.
He'd never realized that, deep down inside, what he really wanted to do
was make things go splat.
DROP THE SCYTHE, AND TURN AROUND SLOWLY.
Five exclamation marks, the sure sign of an insane mind.
It is traditional, when loading wire trolleys, to put the most fragile
items at the bottom.
No matter how fast light travels it finds the darkness has always got
there first, and is waiting for it.
I EXPECT, he said, THAT YOU COULD MURDER A PIECE OF CHEESE?
On the fabled hidden continent of Xxxx, somewhere near the rim, there is a
lost colony of wizards who wear corks around their pointy hats and live on
nothing but prawns.
"Bonsai!"
"Chap with a whip got as far as the big sharp spikes last week," said
the low priest.
"You know," said Windle, "it's a wonderful afterlife."
WHAT CAN THE HARVEST HOPE FOR, IF NOT FOR THE CARE OF THE REAPER MAN?
- "Have you any last words?"
- YES. I DON'T WANT TO GO.
- "Well. Succinct, anyway."
Mrs Evadne Cake was a medium, verging on small.
"Chain letters," said the Tyrant. "The Chain Letter to the Ephebians.
Forget Your Gods. Be Subjugated. Learn to Fear. Do not break the chain -
the last people who did woke up one morning to find fifty thousand armed
men on their lawn."
"It's a god-eat-god world."
"You can't trample infidels when you're a tortoise. I mean, all you could
do is give them a meaningful look."
"That's right," he said. "We're philosophers. We think, therefore we am."
His philosophy was a mixture of three famous schools - the Cynics, the
Stoics and the Epicureans - and summed up all three of them in his famous
phrase, "You can't trust any bugger further than you can throw him, and
there's nothing you can do about it, so let's have a drink."
Dhblah sidled closer. This was not hard. Dhblah sidled everywhere. Crabs
thought he walked sideways.
One day a tortoise will learn how to fly.
History, contrary to popular theories, is kings and dates and battles.
And it came to pass that in time the Great God Om spake unto Brutha, the
Chosen One: "Psst!"
Brother Preptil, the master of the music, had described Brutha's voice as
putting him in mind of a disappointed vulture arriving too late at the dead
donkey.
"There's very good eating on one of these, you know."
"Pets are always a great help in times of stress. And in times of
starvation too, o'course."
Words are the litmus paper of the minds. If you find yourself in the power
of someone who will use the word "commence" in cold blood, go somewhere
else very quickly. But if they say "Enter", don't stop to pack.
The labyrinth of Ephebe is ancient and full of one hundred and one amazing
things you can do with hidden springs, razor-sharp knives, and falling
rocks.
"Ah. Philosophy," said Om.
"Not a man to mince words. People, yes. But not words."
SQUEAK.
Bishops move diagonally. That's why they often turn up where the kings don't
expect them to be.
"Eureka," he said.
"Going to have a bath then?"
"Are you a philosopher? Where's your sponge?"
REMIND ME AGAIN, he said, HOW THE LITTLE HORSE-SHAPED ONES MOVE.
"Go on, do Deformed Rabbit... it's my favourite."
"Oh, a very useful philosophical animal, your average tortoise. Outrunning
metaphorical arrows, beating hares in races... very handy."
Gravity is a habit that is hard to shake off.
The trouble with being a god is that you've got no one to pray to.
There are hardly any excesses of the most crazed psychopath that
cannot easily be duplicated by a normal kindly family man who just
comes in to work every day and has a job to do.
The people who really run organizations are usually found several
levels down, where it is still possible to get things done.
Guilt was the grease in which the wheels of the authority turned.
Most gods find it hard to walk and think at the same time.
When the least they could do to you was everything, then the most
they could do to you suddenly held no terror.
"What's a philosopher ?" said Brutha.
"Someone who's bright enough to find a job with no heavy lifting,"
said a voice in his head.
"Slave is an Ephebian word. In Om we have no word for slave," said
Vorbis.
"So I understand," said the Tyrant. "I imagine that fish have no
word for water."
"He says gods like to see an atheist around. Gives them something
to aim at."
"You're not one of us."
"I don't think I'm one of them, either," said Brutha. "I'm one of
mine."
Simony's eyes gleamed with the gleam of a man who had seen the
future and found it covered with armour plating.
"All holy piety in public, and all peeled grapes and self-indulgence
in private."
When you can flatten entire cities at a whim, a tendency towards
quiet reflection and seeing-things-from-the-other-fellow's-point-
of-view is seldom necessary.
"Take it from me, whenever you see a bunch of buggers puttering
around talking about truth and beauty and the best way of attacking
Ethics, you can bet your sandals it's all because dozens of other
poor buggers are doing all the real work around the place."
"Why do you bother with him? He's had thousands of people killed!"
"Yes, but perhaps he thought that you wanted it."
The figures looked more or less human. And they were engaged in
religion. You could tell by the knives (it's not murder if you do it
for a god).
The trouble was that he was talking in philosophy, but they were
listening in gibberish.
"He's muffed it," said Simony. "he could have done anything with
them. And he just told them the facts. You can't inspire people with
facts. They need a cause. They need a symbol."
"You can't find a hermit to teach you herming, because of course that
rather spoils the whole thing."
Om began to feel the acute depression that steals over every realist
in the presence of an optimist.
"All the other prophets came back with commandments!"
"Where they get them?"
"I ... suppose they made them up."
"You get them from the same place."
Brutha tried to nod, and thought: I'm on everyone's side. It'd be
nice if, just for once, someone was on mine.
Probably the last man who knew how it worked had been tortured to
death years before. Or as soon as it was installed. Killing the
creator was a traditional method of patent protection.
Give anyone a lever long enough and they can change the world.
It's unreliable levers that are the problem.
"Now we've got a truth to die for!"
"No. Men should die for lies. But the truth is too precious
to die for."
YOU HAVE PERHAPS HEARD THE PHRASE THAT HELL IS OTHER PEOPLE?
"Yes. Yes, of course."
Death nodded. IN TIME, he said, YOU WILL LEARN THAT IT IS WRONG.
"I used to think that I was stupid, and then I met philosophers."
"I like the idea of democracy. You have to have someone everyone
distrusts," said Brutha. "That way, everyone's happy."
"That's why it's always worth having a few philosophers around the place.
One minute it's all Is Truth Beauty and Is Beauty Truth, and Does A Falling
Tree in the Forest Make A Sound if There's No one There to Hear It, and
then just when you think they're going to start dribbling one of 'em says,
Incidentally, putting a thirty-foot parabolic reflector on a high place to
shoot the rays of the sun at an enemy's ships would be a very interesting
demonstration of optical principles."
Until an unfortunate axe incident, Gloria had been captain of the school
basketball team.
The man gave a shrug which indicated that, although the world did indeed
have many problems, this was one of them that was not his.
"Of course, just because we've heard a spine-chilling, blood-curdling
scream of the sort to make your very marrow freeze in your bones doesn't
automatically mean there's anything wrong."
It is said that whosoever the gods wish to destroy, they first make mad. In
fact, whosoever the gods wish to destroy, they first hand the equivalent of
a stick with a fizzing fuse and Acme Dynamite Company written on the side.
It's more interesting, and doesn't take so long.
The question seldom addressed is where Medusa had snakes. Underarm hair
is an even more embarassing problem when it keeps biting the top of the
deodorant bottle.
People came to Ankh-Morpork to seek their fortune. Unfortunately, other
people sought it too.
The class was learning about some revolt in which some peasants had wanted
to stop being peasants and, since the nobles had won, had stopped being
peasants really quickly.
The hippo of recollection stirred in the muddy waters of the mind.
Smoke was coming out of the stricken piano. The Librarian's hands were
walking through the keys like Casanunda in a nunnery.
They looked at one another in incomprehension, two minds driving opposite
ways up a narrow street and waiting for the other man to reverse first.
The students were staring at her in the manner of those who have heard of
the species 'female' but have never expected to get this close to one.
The Patrician was a pragmatist. He never tried to fix things that worked.
Things that didn't work, however, got broken.
"What duck?"
There was a roar like the scream of a camel who has just seen two bricks.
"Yes," said the skull. "Quit while you're a head, that's what I say."
He did of course sometimes have people horribly tortured to death, but this
was considered to be perfectly acceptable behaviour for a civic ruler and
generally approved of by the overhelming majority of citizens. [footnote:
The overhelming majority of citizens being defined in this case as everyone
not currently hanging upside down over a scorpion pit]
There were a few seconds of total silence as everyone waited to see what
would happen next. And then Nijel uttered the battle cry that Rincewind
would never quite forget to the end of his life. "Erm," he said, "excuse
me..."
Of course, Ankh-Morpork's citizens had always claimed that the river water
was incredibly pure. Any water that had passed through so many kidneys,
they reasoned, had to be very pure indeed.
The subject of wizards and sex is a complicated one, but as has already
been indicated it does, in essence, boil down to this: when it comes to
wine, women and song, wizards are allowed to get drunk and croon as much as
they like.
The vermine is a small black and white relative of the lemming, found in
the cold Hublandish regions. Its skin is rare and highly valued, especially
by the vermine itself; the selfish little bastard will do anything rather
than let go of it.
"It's going to look pretty good, then, isn't it," said War testily, "the
One Horseman and Three Pedestrians of the Apocralypse."
It wasn't blood in general he couldn't stand the sight of, it was just his
blood in particular that was so upsetting.
"I'm not going to ride on a magic carpet!" he hissed.
"I'm afraid of grounds."
"You mean heights," said Conina. "And stop being silly."
"I know what I mean! It's the grounds that kill you!"
It became apparent that one reason why the Ice Giants were known as the Ice
Giants was because they were, well, giants. The other was that they were
made of ice.
"I meant," said Iplsore bitterly, "what is there in this world that makes
living worthwhile?"
Death thought about it. "CATS," he said eventually, "CATS ARE NICE."
Death was Nature's way of telling you to slow down.
The sky spun again as Marco turned the ship so that 'down' was where long
tradition had always put it, in the region of the feet.
He didn't look mad, but they never did.
"You can think and you can fight, but the world's always movin', and if
you wanna stay ahead you gotta dance."
The important thing about adventures, thought Mr Bunnsy, was that they
shouldn't be so long as to make you miss mealtimes.
Humans, eh? Think they're lords of creation. Not like us cats. We know
we are. Ever see a cat feed a human? Case proven.
A good plan isn't one where someone wins, it's where nobody thinks
they've lost.
"You can think and you can fight, but the world's always movin', and if
you wanna stay ahead you gotta dance."
On the fifth day the Governor of the town called all the tribal chieftains
to an audience in the market square, to hear their grievances. He didn't
always do anything about them, but at least they got heard, and he nodded
a lot, and everyone felt better about it at least until they got home. This
is politics.
"He's a man of few words, and he doesn't know what either of them mean,"
people said, but not when he was within hearing.
"My house is your house", his brow suddenly furrowed and he looked worried,
"although only in a metaphorical sense, you understand, because I would
not, much as I always admired your straightforward approach, and indeed
your forthright stance, actually give you my house, it being the only
house I have, and therefore the term is being extended in an, as it were,
gratuitous fashion -"
Owlglass was clearly having some trouble getting to the end of the sentence.
Tourist, Rincewind decided, meant "idiot".
"Let's just say that if complete and utter chaos was lightning, he'd be the
sort to stand on a hilltop in a thunderstorm wearing wet copper armour and
shouting 'All gods are bastards'."
"I perceive a possibility of an immediate chronological sequence of events
which includes a violence," said Three. He stepped back, "I express
preference for a chronological sequence of events which precludes a
violence."
The one positive thing you could say about the bread products around him
was that they were probably as edible now as they were on the day they were
baked. Forged was a better term. Dwarf bread was made as a meal of last
resort and also as a weapon and a currency. Dwarfs were not, as far as
Vimes knew, religious in any way, but the way they thought about bread came
close.
You did something because it had always been done, and the explanation was
"but we've always done it this way." A million dead people can't have been
wrong, can they?
Sam Vimes could parallel process. Most husbands can. They learn to follow
their own line of thought while at the same time listening to what their
wives say. And the listening is important, because at any time they could
be challenged and must be ready to quote the last sentence in full. A vital
additional skill is being able to scan the dialogue for telltale phrases
such as "and they can deliver it tomorrow" or "so I've invited them for
dinner?" or "they can do it in blue, really quite cheaply."
There was no such thing as a dwarfish female pronoun or, once the children
were on solids, any such thing as women's work.
He wasn't strictly aware of it, but he treated even geography as if he was
investigating a crime (did you see who carved out the valley? Would you
recognize that glacier if you saw it again?)
He was aware that a wise man should always respect the folkways of others,
to use Carrot's happy phrase, but Vimes often had difficulty with this
idea. For one thing, there were people in the world whose folkways
consisted of gutting other people like clams and this was not a procedure
that commanded, in Vimes, any kind of respect at all.
It was funny how people were people everywhere you went, even if the people
concerned weren't the people the people who made up the phrase "people are
people everywhere" had traditionally thought of as people. And even if you
weren't virtuous, as you had been brought up to understand the term, you
did like to see virtue in other people, provided it didn?t cost you
anything.
A marriage is always made up of two people who are prepared to swear that
only the other one snores.
As castles went, this one looked as though it could be taken by a small
squad of not very efficient soldiers. For defence, putting a blanket over
your head might be marginally safer.
She moved like someone who had grown used to her body and, in general,
looked like what Vimes had heard described as "a woman of a certain age."
He'd never been quite certain what age that was.
"When it's time to stop living, I will certainly make Death my number one
choice!"
- "I think there may be one or two steps in your logic that I have failed
  to grasp, Mister Stibbons," said the Archchancellor coldly. "I suppose
  you're not intending to shoot your own grandfather, by any chance?"
- "Of course not!" snapped Ponder, "I don't even know what he looked like.
  He died before I was born."
- "Ah-hah!"
In the fetid fleapit of Rincewind's brain the projectionist of memory put
on reel two. Recollection began to flicker.
Daggy stepped forward, but only comparatively; in fact, his mates had all,
without discussion, taken one step backwards in the choreography of
caution.
PEOPLE'S WHOLE LIVES DO PASS IN FRONT OF THEIR EYES BEFORE THEY DIE. THE
PROCESS IS CALLED 'LIVING'.
"All bastards are bastards, but some bastards is bastards."
They say the heat and the flies here can drive a man insane. But you don't
have to believe that, and nor does that bright mauve elephant that just
cycled past.
Ridcully was to management what King Herod was to the Bethlehem Playgroup
Association. His mental approach to it could be visualised as a sort of
business flowchart with, at the top, a circle entitled "Me, who does the
telling" and, connected below it by a line, a large circle entitled
"Everyone else".
"When You're Up to Your Ass in Alligators, Today Is the First Day of the
Rest of Your Life."
Rincewind had always been happy to think of himself as a racist. The One
Hundred Meters, the Mile, the Marathon - he'd run them all.
Too many people, when listing all the perils to be found in the search
for lost treasure or ancient wisdom, had forgotten to put at the top of
the list 'the man who arrived just before you'.
- "DID YOU SAY HUMANS PLAY IT FOR FUN?"
- "Some of them get to be very good at it, yes. I'm only an amateur,
   I'm afraid"
- "BUT THEY ONLY LIVE EIGHTY OR NINETY YEARS!"
It looked like the sort of book described in library catalogues as
"slightly foxed", although it would be more honest to admit that it looked
as though it had beed badgered, wolved and possibly beared as well.
        - Ah, but has it been hedgehogged?
"The knuckles! The horrible knuckles!"
I WAS AT A PARTY, he added, a shade reproachfully.
A Thaum is the basic unit of magical strength. It has been universally
established as the amount of magic needed to create one small white pigeon
or three normal sized billiard balls.
He moved in a way that suggested he was attempting the world speed record
for the nonchalant walk.
- "What is it that a man may call the greatest things in life?"
- "Hot water, good dentishtry and shoft lavatory paper."
The old shaman said carefully, "You didn't just see two men go through
upside down on a broomstick, shouting and screaming at each other, did
you?" The boy looked at him levelly. "Certainly not," he said. The old man
heaved a sigh of relief. "Thank goodness for that," he said. "Neither did I."
Something small and distant broke through the cloud layer, trailing shreds
of vapour. In the stratospheric calm the sounds of bickering came sharp and
clear.
"You said you could fly one of these things!"
"No I didn't; I just said you couldn't!"
"Early to rise, early to bed, makes a man healthy, wealthy and dead."
The druid stiffened. "Nice?" he said. "A triumph of the silicon chunk, a
miracle of modern masonic technology - nice?" "Oh, yes," said Twoflower,
to whom sarcasm was merely a seven letter word beginning with S.
"Shut up and tell me what that other idiot ish doing!"
"No, but look, if I've got to shut up, how can I -"
The knife at his throat became a hot streak of pain and Rincewind decided
to give logic a miss.
The point that must be made is that although Herrena the Henna-Haired
Harridan would look quite stunning after a good bath, a heavy-duty
manicure, and the pick of the leather racks in Woo Hung Ling's Oriental
Exotica and Martial Aids on Heroes Street, she was currently quite sensibly
dressed in light chain mail, soft boots, and a short sword. All right,
maybe the boots were leather. But not black.
"Students made it long ago," said Rincewind. "Handy way in and out after
lights out."
"Ah," said Twoflower, "I understand. Over the wall and out to
brightly-lit tavernas to drink and sing and recite poetry, yes?"
"Nearly right except for the singings and the poetry, yes," said Rincewind.
- "Pull me up, then," he hinted.
- "I think that might be sort of difficult," grunted Twoflower. "I don't
  actually think I can do it, in fact."
- "What are you holding on to, then?"
- "You."
- "I mean besides me."
- "What do you mean, besides you?" said Twoflower.
- "If you're going to suggest I try dropping twenty feet down a pitch dark
  tower in the hope of hitting a couple of greasy little steps which might
  not even still be there, you can forget it," said Rincewind sharply.
- "There is an alternative, then."
- "Out with it, man."
- "You could drop five hundred feet down a pitch black tower and hit stones
  which certainly are there," said Twoflower.
Dead silence from below him. Then Rincewind said, accusingly, "That
was sarcasm."
The point is that descriptive writing is very rarely entirely accurate and
during the reign of Olaf Quimby II as Patrician of Ankh some legislation
was passed in a determined attempt to put a stop to this sort of thing and
introduce some honesty into reporting. Thus, if a legend said of a notable
here that "all men spoke of his prowess" any bard who valued his life would
add hastily "except for a couple of people in his home village who thought
he was a liar, and quite a lot of other people who had never really heard
of him."
There were no flies on C.M.O.T Dibbler. He would have charged them rent.
The world is made up of four elements: Earth, Air, Fire and Water.
This is a fact well known even to Corporal Nobbs. It's also wrong.
There's a fifth element, and generally it's called Surprise.
There are, it has been said, two types of people in the world. There are
those who, when presented with a glass that is exactly half full, say:
this glass is half full. And then there are those who say: this glass
is half empty.
The world belongs, however, to those who can look at the glass and say:
What's up with this glass? Excuse me? Excuse me? This is my glass? I
don't think so. My glass was full! And it was a bigger glass!
It was a puzzle why things were always dragged kicking and screaming.
No one ever seemed to want to, for example, lead them gently by the hand.
"The Truth Shall Make Ye Fret"
A lie can run round the world before the truth has got its boots on.
"He's going to go totally Librarian-poo."
"But surely dogs can't talk--" Sacharissa began.
"Oh dear oh dear oh dear," said Gaspode, "Did I say I was talking?"
"Well, not in so many words--"
WHO KNOWS WHAT EVIL LURKS IN THE HEART OF MEN?
The Death of Rats looked up from the feast of potato.
SQUEAK, he said.
Death waved a hand dismissively. WELL, YES, OBVIOUSLY ME, he said.
I JUST WONDERED IF THERE WAS ANYONE ELSE.
"Some people are heroes. And some people jot down notes."
Our garden was debated territory between five local cats, and we'd heard
that the best way to keep other cats out of the garden was to have one
yourself. A moment's rational thought here will spot the slight flaw in
this reasoning.
Boot-faced cats aren't born but made, often because they've tried to
outstare or occasionally rape a speeding car and have been repaired by a
vet who just pulled all the bits together and stuck the stitches in where
there was room.
Cats don't hunt seals. They would if they knew what they were and where to
find them. But they don't, so that's all right.
It's an interesting fact that fewer than 17 % of Real cats end their lives
with the same name they started with. Much family effort goes into
selecting one at the start ("She looks like a Winnifred to me"), and the
as the years roll by it suddenly finds itself being called Meepo or Ratbag.
Next comes the realist phase ("After all, from a purely geometrical point
of view a cat is only a tube with a door at the top.").
Everyone's heard of Erwin Schrodinger's famous thought experiment. You put
a cat in a box with a bottle of poison, which many people would suggest is
about as far as you need to go.
Consider the situation. There you are, forehead like a set of balconies,
worrying about the long-term effects of all this new 'fire' stuff on the
environment, you're being chased and eaten by most of the planet's large
animals, and suddenly tiny versions of one of the worst of them wanders
into the cave and starts to purr.
"Zoology, eh? That's a big word, isn't it?"
"No, actually it isn't," said Tiffany. "Patronizing is a big word.
Zoology is really quite short."
"Do not act incautiously when confronting little bald wrinkly smiling men!"
"Sometimes I really think people ought to have to pass a proper exam
before they're allowed to be parents. Not just the practical, I mean."
"No running with scythes!"
Look, that's why there's rules, understand? So that you think before
you break 'em.
Even with nougat you can have a perfect moment.
In the second scroll of Wen the Eternally Surprised a story is written
concerning one day when the apprentice Clodpool, in a rebellious mood,
approached Wen and spake thusly:
"Master, what is the difference between a humanistic, monastic
system of belief in which wisdom is sought by means of an apparently
nonsensical system of questions and answers, and a lot of mystic
gibberish made up on the spur of the moment?"
Wen considered this for some time, and at last said: "A fish!"
And Clodpool went away, satisfied.
- "Outside! What's it like?"
- "Well - It's sort of big"
The Store was having its last sale. It was holding a Grand Final Clearance
of specially selected sparks, and flames to suit every pocket.
It's a small step for a man, but a giant leap for nomekind.
Granny's remedies, made from simple, honest, and generally nearly poisonous
herbs and roots, were amazing things. After one dose of stomache-ache
jollop, you made sure you never complained of stomach ache ever again. In
its way, it was a sort of cure.
"No, no, no, what you do is, you get a gnu, then you point it at the driver
and someone says, 'Look out, he's got a gnu!' and you say, 'Take us where
we want to go or I'll fire this gnu at you!'"
There was a polite beeping from the Thing. "You may be interested to know,"
it said, "that we've broken the sound barrier."  Masklin turned wearily to
the others. "All right, own up. Who broke it?"
Beyond the top of the sky was the place the Thing had called the universe.
It contained - according to the Thing - everything and nothing. And there
was very little everything and more nothing than anyone could imagine.
- "The other humans around it are trying to explain to it what a planet is."
- "Doesn't it know?"
- "Many humans don't. Mistervicepresident is one of them."
AIRPORTS: A place where people hurry up and wait.
"I thought jet planes were just trucks with more wings and less wheels."
Nomes live ten times faster than humans. They're harder to see than a high-
speed mouse. That's one reason why most humans hardly ever see them. The
other is that humans are very good at not seeing things they know aren't
there. And, since sensible humans know that there are no such things as
people four inches high, a nome who doesn't want to be seen probably won't
be seen.
And then there were the frogs.
Very, very small frogs.
They had such a tiny life cycle it still had trainer wheels on it.
And this had been the way things were for as far back as the frogs could
remember [footnote: About three seconds. Frogs don't have good memories].
"You get more air close to the ground," said Angalo. "I read that in a
book. You get lots of air low down, and not much when you go up."
"Why not?" said Gurder.
"Dunno. It's frightened of heights, I guess."
CONCORDE: It goes twice as fast as a bullet and you get smoked salmon.
It had been in a pocket diary, and the names of the faraway places written
on it were like magic - Africa, Australia, China, Equator, Printed in Hong
Kong, Iceland...
They stared at the branch. There wasn't just one flower out there, there
were dozens, although the frogs weren't able to think like this because
frogs can't count beyond one. They saw lots of ones.
They stared at them. Staring is one of the few things frogs are good at.
Thinking isn't.
It would be nice to say that the tiny frogs thought long and hard about the
new flower, about life in the old flower, about the need to explore, about
the possibility that the world was bigger than a pool with petals around
the edge.
In fact, what they thought was: "._._.mipmip._._.mipmip._._.mipmip".
HOTELS: A place where TRAVELLING HUMANS are parked at night. Other humans
bring them food, including the famous BACON, LETTUCE AND TOMATO SANDWICH.
There are beds and towels and special things that rain on people to get
them clean.
- "Very clever idea, though."
- "What is?"
- "Asking the questions when people arrive. If anyone was coming here to
   do some subversive overthrowing, everyone'd be down on him like a pound of
   bricks as soon as he answered 'Yes'."
- "It's a sneaky trick, isn't it," said Angalo, in an admiring tone of
   voice.
- "What's the human singing about, Thing?" said Masklin.
- "It is a little difficult to follow. However, it appears that the singer
   wishes it to be known that he did something his way."
- "Did what?"
- "Insufficient data at this point. But whatever it was, he did it at
   a) each step along life's highway and b) not in a shy way..."
FLORIDA (or FLORIDIA): A place where may be found ALLIGATORS, LONG-NECKED
TURTLES and SPACE SHUTTLES. An interesting place which is warm and wet and
there are geese. BACON, LETTUCE AND TOMATO SANDWICHES may be found here
also. A lot more interesting than many other places. The shape when seen
from the air is like a bit stuck on a bigger bit.
SATELLITES: They are in SPACE and stay there by going so fast that they are
never in one place enough to fall down. TELEVISIONS are bounced off them.
They are part of SCIENCE.
SCIENCE: A way of finding things out and then making them work. Science
explains what is happening around us the whole time. So does RELIGION, but
science is better because it comes up with more understandable excuses when
it is wrong. There is a lot more Science than you think.
"All right," said Masklin. "But you're not to fly down low again and try
to read the signposts. Every time you do that, humans rush into the streets
and we get lots of shouting on the radio."
"That's right." said the Thing. "People are bound to get excited when
they see a ten-million-ton starship trying to fly down the street."
The Yen Buddhists are the richest religious sect in the universe. They hold
that the accumulation of money is a great evil and a burden to the soul.
They therefore, regardless of personal hazard, see it as their unpleasant
duty to acquire as much as possible in order to reduce the risk to innocent
people.
Asking someone to repeat a phrase you'd not only heard very clearly but
were also exceedingly angry about was around Defcon II in the lexicon of
squabble.
- "We've got a lot of experience of not having any experience"
- "But the point is... the point is... the point is we've not been
   experienced for a lot longer than you."
The only way housework could be done in this place was with a shovel or,
for preference, a match.
People didn't hit you over the head with farmhouses back home.
Racism was not a problem on the Discworld, because - what with trolls and
dwarfs and so on - speciesism was more interesting. Black and white lived
in perfect harmony and ganged up on green.
Nanny Ogg quite liked cooking, provided there were other people around to
do things like chop up the vegetables and wash the dishes afterwards.
"Emberella," thought Magrat. "I'm fairy godmothering a girl who sounds like
something you put up in the rain."
Magrat was annoyed. She was also frightened, which made her even more
annoyed. It was hard for people when Magrat was annoyed. It was like being
attacked by damp tissue.
Nanny Ogg looked him up and down or, at least, down and further down.
"You're a dwarf," she said.
- "'S called the Vieux River."
- "Yes?"
- "Know what that means?"
- "No."
- "The Old (Masculine) River," said Nanny.
- "Yes?"
- "Words have sex in foreign parts," said Nanny hopefully.
"You can't go around building a better world for people. Only people
can build a better world for people. Otherwise it's just a cage."
Bad spelling can be lethal. For example, the greedy Seriph of Al-Yabi was
cursed by a badly-educated deity and for some days everything he touched
turned to Glod, which happened to be the name of a small dwarf from a
mountain community hundreds of miles away who found himself magically
dragged to the kingdom and relentlessly duplicated. Some two thousand Glods
later the spell wore off. These days, the people of Al-Yabi are renowned
for being remarkably short and bad-tempered.
Greebo's technique was unscientific and wouldn't have stood a chance
against any decent swordmanship, but on his side was the fact that
it is almost impossible to develop decent swordmanship when you seem
to have run into a food mixer that is biting your ear off.
Genua had once controlled the river mouth and taxed its traffic in a way
that couldn't be called piracy because it was done by the city government.
"Baths is unhygienic," Granny declared. "You know I've never agreed with
baths. Sittin' around in your own dirt like that."
The calender of the Theocracy of Muntab counts down, not up. No-one knows
why, but it might not be a good idea to hang around and find out.
The duke had a mind that ticked like a clock and, like a clock, it
regularly went cuckoo.
"There must be a hundred silver dollars in here," moaned Boggis, waving a
purse. "I mean, that's not my league. That's not my class. I can't handle
that sort of money. You've got to be in the Guild of Lawyers or something
to steal that much."
"I'd like to know if I could compare you to a summer's day. Because -
well, June 12th was quite nice, and..."
"'Tis not right, a woman going into such places by herself."
Granny nodded. She thoroughly approved of such sentiments so long as
there was, of course, no suggestion that they applied to her.
Above the hearth was a huge pokerwork sign saying "Mother". No tyrant in
the whole history of the world had ever achieved a domination so complete.
"A man could go far, knowing his rights like you do," said Granny.
"But right now he should go home."
"I daresay," said Granny, pushing the Fool aside and stepping over a
writhing taproot. "If anyone locked me in a dungeon, there'd be screams."
"He didn't take any notice!" whispered Tomjon.
"A born critic," said the dwarf.
"Actors," said Granny, witheringly. "As if the world weren't full
of enough history without inventing more."
In fact, no gods anywhere play chess. They prefer simple, vicious games,
where you Do Not Achieve Transcendence but Go Straight to Oblivion; a key
to the understanding of all religion is that a god's idea of amusement is
Snakes and Ladders with greased rungs.
"Yes, bugger all that." said Nanny. "Let's curse somebody."
On nights such as these the gods, as has already been pointed out, play
games other than chess with the fates of mortals and the thrones of kings.
It is important to remember that they always cheat, right up to the end...
