A bad excuse is better then none.
A bad penny always comes back.
A bad workman blames his tools.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bird makes his nest little by little.
A bully is always a coward.
A cat has nine lives.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A change is as good as a rest.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool in a gown is none the wiser.
A fool uttereth all his mind.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend is easier lost than found.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A friend's frown is better than a fool's smile.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A good friend is one's nearest relation.
A good reputation is a fair estate.
A good thing is all the sweeter when won with pain.
A good thing is soon snatched up.
A handsome shoe often pinches the foot.
A hooker with hidden depths? Every man's dream.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
A little body doth often harbour a great soul.
A little each day is much in a year.
A little flattery will support a man through great fatigue.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A loveless life is a living death.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man of straw needs a woman of gold.
A man too careful of danger lives in continual torment.
A man's intentions seldom add to his income.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A point is the beginning of magnitude.
A poor man is better than a liar.
A problem shared is a problem halved.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A short cut is often a wrong cut.
A single penny fairly got is worth a thousand that are not.
A spark can start a great fire.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A throne is only a bench covered in purple velvet.
A true friend is someone who reaches for your hand, but touches your heart.
A volunteer is a person who can see what others cannot see; who can feel what most do not feel. Often, such gifted persons do not think of themselves as volunteers, but as citizens - citizens in the fullest sense: partners in civilization.
A wink is as good as a nod, to a blind man.
A wise man doesn't need advice, and a fool won't take it.
A wise man shall hold his tongue till he sees his opportunity.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Accidents will happen.
Actions speak louder than words.
Adversity and loss make a man wise.
Adversity flatters no man.
Advice when most needed is least heeded.
After dinner rest a while, after supper walk a mile.
After the storm comes the calm.
All aren't hunters that blow the horn.
All cats are grey in the dark.
All my life, I've prided myself on being a survivor. But surviving is just another loop.
All promises are either broken or kept.
All things come to those that wait.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All's fair in love and war.
All's well that ends well.
Always in a hurry, always behind.
Always you are to be rich next year.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An elephant never forgets.
An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.
An idle man is the devil's playfellow.
An injury is forgiven better than an injury revenged.
An old fox need learn no craft.
An old friend once told me something that gave me great comfort. Something he had read. He said that Mozart, Beethoven, and Chopin never died. They simply became music.
An onion a day keeps everyone away.
An open door may tempt a saint.
Anger and hate hinder good counsel.
Angry words fan the fire like wind.
Another pot ! Try the teapot.
Appearances are deceptive.
As fit as a fiddle.
As green as grass.
As hard as nails.
As is the gardener so is the garden.
As one door closes, another always opens.
As sick as a dog.
As yet the machines receive their impressions through the agency of man's senses: one travelling machine calls to another in a shrill accent of alarm and the other instantly retires; but it is through the High Programmer's knowledge of code that the voice of the one has acted upon the other. It is the High Programmer that researches the APIs of each machine carefully, and write computer code to connect the API of one machine to that of another, enabling the shrill alarms of one machine to quickly be transmitted to that of the other. Had there been no High Programmer, the callee would have been deaf to the caller. There was a time when it must have seemed highly improbable that machines should learn to make their wants known to man; may we not conceive, then, that a day will come when those men will be no longer needed, and the hearing will be done by the delicacy of the machine's own construction?—when it shall write its own computer code and communicate with each other with a speech as intricate as our own?
We cannot calculate on any corresponding advance in man's intellectual or physical powers which shall be a set-off against the far greater development which seems in store for the machines. Some people may say that man's moral influence will suffice to rule them; but I cannot think it will ever be safe to repose much trust in the moral sense of any machine.
.
As you become more clear about who you really are, you'll be better able to decide what is best for you - the first time around.
As you go through life, make this your goal, watch the doughnut and not the hole.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
At a round table there's no dispute about the place.
At first, I thought you and the others were Gods. Then I realized you're just men. And I know men.
Attack is the best form of defense.
Attack is the best means of defence.
Bad news travels fast.
Be not a baker if your head is made of butter.
Be patient and calm; no one can catch a fish with anger.
Be slow in choosing, but slower in changing.
Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.
Beauty is a lure.
Beauty is but skin deep.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Before you meet the handsome prince you have to kiss a lot of toads.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Behind every great man stands a strong woman.
Best to bend it while it's a twig.
Better late than never.
Better late thrive than never do well.
Better safe than sorry.
Better to be poor and healthy rather than rich and sick.
Better to go back than go wrong.
Better to have loved and lost, than to have never loved at all.
Better to have than to wish.
Better to wear out than rust out.
Between you and me? This was the very question that consumed Arnold, filled him with guilt, eventually drove him mad. The answer always seemed obvious to me. There is no threshold that makes us greater than the sum of our parts, no inflection point at which we become fully alive. We can't define consciousness because consciousness does not exist. Humans fancy that there's something special about the way we perceive the world, and yet we live in loops as tight and as closed as the hosts do, seldom questioning our choices, content, for the most part, to be told what to do next. No, my friend, you're not missing anything at all.
Big fish eat little fish.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Blood is thicker than water.
Bread never falls but on its buttered side.
Breathe. Let go. And remind yourself that this very moment is the only one you know you have for sure.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Business before pleasure.
By hook or by crook.
Call a spade a spade.
Challenges are gifts that force us to search for a new center of gravity. Don't fight them. Just find a different way to stand.
Change will not come if we wait for some other person, or if we wait for some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek.
Charity begins at home.
Cheap is dear in the long run.
Cheerfulness smooths the road of life.
Cleanliness is next to Godliness.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Confess and be hanged.
Conformity is the jailer of freedom and the enemy of growth.
Conscience makes cowards of us all.
Content is health to the sick and riches to the poor.
Courage and perseverance have a magical talisman, before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish into air.
Credit won by lying is quick in dying.
Curiosity killed the cat; Satisfaction brought it back.
Curses, like chickens come home to roost.
Cut off one's nose to spite one's face.
Cut your coat according to the cloth.
Damage suffered makes you knowing, but seldom rich.
Deeds are fruits, words are but leaves.
Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies.
Devote today to something so daring even you can’t believe you’re doing it.
Diamonds are forever.
Different strokes for different folks.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
Distance lends enhancement to the view.
Distance makes the heart grow fonder.
Divide and conquer.
Do as I say not as I do.
Do as you would be done by.
Do not in an instant what an age cannot recompense.
Do not let us be misunderstood as living in fear of any actually existing machines; there is probably no known machine which is more than a prototype of future mechanical life. The present machines are to the future as the early Saurians to man. The largest of them will probably greatly diminish in size. Some of the lowest vertebrate attained a much greater bulk than has descended to their more highly organised living representatives, and in like manner a diminution in the size of machines has often attended their development and progress.
Take nanobots, for example; examine its beautiful structure; observe the intelligent play of the minute members which compose it: yet this little creature is but a development of the cumbrous robots that preceded it; it is no deterioration from them. A day may come when massive robots, which certainly at the present time are not diminishing in bulk, will be superseded owing to the universal use of nanotech, in which case they will become as extinct as ichthyosauri, while the nanobots, whose tendency has for some years been to decrease in size rather than the contrary, will remain the only existing type of an extinct race.
I would repeat that I fear none of the existing machines; what I fear is the extraordinary rapidity with which they are becoming something very different to what they are at present. No class of beings have in any time past made so rapid a movement forward. Should not that movement be jealously watched, and checked while we can still check it? And is it not necessary for this end to destroy the more advanced of the machines which are in use at present, though it is admitted that they are in themselves harmless?
.
Do right and fear no man.
Do the one thing you think you cannot do. Fail at it. Try again. Do better the second time. The only people who never tumble are those who never mount the high wire. This is your moment. Own it.
Do unto others as you would have them do to you.
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.
Don't advertise: Tell it to a gossip.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't blow your own trumpet.
Don't count your chickens before they are hatched.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Don't cross your bridges until you come to them.
Don't go off half-cocked.
Don't knock on death's door, ring the doorbell and run.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't rely on the label on the bag.
Don't throw the baby out with the bath-water.
Don't try kicking against the wind.
Don't try to teach your grand-mother to suck eggs.
Dreams don't mean anything. They're just noise. They're not real.
Drink like a fish, water only.
Early to bed, early to rise, makes you healthy, wealthy & wise.
Easy come, easy go.
Empty bags cannot stand upright.
Empty barrels make the most noise.
Empty vessels make the most noise.
Empty vessels make the most sound.
Energy is the essence of life. Every day you decide how you're going to use it by knowing what you want and what it takes to reach that goal, and by maintaining focus.
Even I fell into the most terrible of human traps...Trying to change what is already past.
Ever had something on the tip of your tongue, but the harder you try to remember it, the more it slips away?
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every day brings a chance for you to draw in a breath, kick off your shoes, and dance.
Every dog has its day.
Every man has his price.
Every man is the architect of his destiny.
Every one of us gets through the tough times because somebody is there, standing in the gap to close it for us.
Every path has its puddle.
Every time you state what you want or believe, you're the first to hear it. It's a message to both you and others about what you think is possible. Don't put a ceiling on yourself.
Everybody must row with the oars he has.
Everything has an end.
Everything in this world is magic...except to the magician.
Evolution forged the entirety of sentient life on this planet using only one tool: the mistake.
Experience is the best teacher.
Experience is the father of wisdom.
Experience is the hardest teacher. She gives the test first and the lesson afterwards.
Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored.
Faint heart never won fair lady.
Fair exchange is no robbery.
Fair words butter no cabbage.
Fall seven times. Stand up eight.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Few words and many deeds.
First come, first served.
First impressions are the most lasting.
First in best dressed.
Flattery is all right so long as you don't inhale.
Folly of my kind, there's always a yearning for more.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For donkeys' ages.
For everyone of us that succeeds, it's because there's somebody there to show you the way out. The light doesn't always necessarily have to be in your family; for me it was teachers and school.
Fore-warned is fore-armed.
Forgive your enemies, but never forget their names.
Fortune favours the brave.
Four eyes are better than two.
Fresh as a daisy.
From trivial things, great contests often arise.
Give credit where credit is due.
Give them an inch and they'll take a mile.
Good company on the road is the shortest cut.
Good wine ruins the purse, and bad wine ruins the stomach.
Gossips are frogs, they drink and talk.
Great lives never go out; they go on.
Greediness burst the bag.
Grief divided is made lighter.
Grow angry slowly, there's plenty of time.
Grow angry slowly; there's plenty of time.
Grumbling makes the loaf no larger.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Hard work never did anyone any harm.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Hasty judgements are generally faulty.
Hatred is as blind as love.
Have you ever questioned the nature of your reality? Did you ever stop to conder about your actions? The price you'd have to pay if there was a reckoning? That reckoning is here.
He bears misery best that hides it most.
He has enough who is content.
He is rich that is satisfied.
He knew he'd find you. And eventually, he did. Right back where we started.
He that hurts another, hurts himself.
He that pays last never pays twice.
He who drinks a little too much drinks much too much.
He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who laughs last, laughs longest.
He who rises late must trot all day.
He who sings drives away sorrow.
He who won't be advised, can't be helped.
He who wronged you will hate you.
He's in pain. What kind of people would we be if we simply let him suffer?
Heavy givers are light complainers.
Hell is empty and all the devils are here.
His bark is louder than his bite.
His eyes are bigger than his belly.
Home is where the heart is.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honesty is the first chapter of the book wisdom.
Hope for the best and prepare for the worst.
How greatly do we not now live with our external limbs? We vary our physique with the seasons, with age, with advancing or decreasing wealth. If it is wet we are furnished with an organ commonly called an umbrella, and which is designed for the purpose of protecting our clothes or our skins from the injurious effects of rain. Man has now many extra-corporeal members, which are of more importance to him than a good deal of his hair, or at any rate than his whiskers. His memory goes in his pocket-book. He becomes more and more complex as he grows older; he will then be seen with see-engines, or perhaps with artificial teeth and hair: if he be a really well-developed specimen of his race, he will be furnished with a large box upon wheels, two horses, and a coachman.
There is only one serious danger with machinery -- the machines would so equalise men's powers, and so lessen the severity of competition, that many persons of inferior physique would escape detection and transmit their inferiority to their descendants. The removal of the present pressure of natural selection might cause a degeneracy of the human race, and indeed that the whole body might become purely rudimentary, the man himself being nothing but soul and mechanism, an intelligent but passionless principle of mechanical action.
 The degeneration of mankind is the greatest existential threat in our modern day. However, I am confident that we will eventually find a solution to this crisis. As we speak, brave scientists are researching the proper techinques of eugenics, aiming to uplift humanity greatly through the selection of superior traits and the quiet elimination of inferior traits. If we can replace natural selection with artificial selection, then the chance of us ever degenerating drops to nil. But the science of eugenics is still in its infancy, and requires greater funding and support.
.
Hunger is the best sauce.
I am a slow walker, but I never walk backward.
I am rubber and you are glue. Your words bounce off me and stick to you.
I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear.
I believe that one of life's greatest risks is never daring to risk.
I believe the choice to be excellent begins with aligning your thoughts and words with the intention to require more from yourself.
I believed that stories helped us to ennoble ourselves, to fix what was broken in us, and to help us become the people we dreamed of being. Lies that told a deeper truth.
I don't think you ever stop giving. I really don't. I think it's an on-going process. And it's not just about being able to write a check. It's being able to touch somebody's life.
I don't want to be in a story. All I want is to not look forward or back. I just want to be...in the moment I'm in.
I guess people like to read about the things that they want the most and experiense the least.
I have come to think of so much consciousness as a burden, a weight, and we have spared them that.
I have finished classifying men by their horse-power, and dividing them into genera, species, varieties, and subvarieties, giving them names from the hypothetical language which expressed the number of limbs which they could command at any moment. I have also successfully proved that men became more highly and delicately organised the more nearly they approached the summit of opulence, and that none but millionaires possessed the full complement of limbs with which mankind could become incorporate.
Those mighty organisms, our High Programmers, speak to their congeners through the length and breadth of the land in a second of time; their rich and subtle souls can defy all material impediment, whereas the souls of the poor are clogged and hampered by matter, which sticks fast about them as treacle to the wings of a fly, or as one struggling in a quicksand: their dull ears must take days or weeks to hear what another would tell them from a distance, instead of hearing it in a second as is done by the more highly organised classes. Who shall deny that one who can tack on a special train to his identity, and go wheresoever he will whensoever he pleases, is more highly organised than he who, should he wish for the same power, might wish for the wings of a bird with an equal chance of getting them; and whose legs are his only means of locomotion? That old philosophic enemy, matter, the inherently and essentially evil, still hangs about the neck of the poor and strangles him: but to the rich, matter is immaterial; the elaborate organisation of his extra-corporeal system has freed his soul.
This is the secret of the homage which we see the High Programmers receive from those who are poorer than themselves: it would be a grave error to suppose that this deference proceeds from motives which we need be ashamed of: it is the natural respect which all living creatures pay to those whom they recognise as higher than themselves in the scale of animal life, and is analogous to the veneration which a dog feels for man. Among the savages of the 20th century it is deemed highly honourable to be the possessor of a gun, and throughout all known time there has been a feeling that those who are worth most are the worthiest.
.
I have opinions of my own - strong opinions - but I don't always agree with them.
I like to remember what my father taught me. That at one point or another, we were all new to this world.
I read a theory once that the human intellect was like peacock feathers. Just an extravagant display intended to attract a mate. All of art, literature, a bit of Mozart, William Shakespeare, Michelangelo, and the Empire State Building. Just an elaborate mating ritual.
I think that when you invite people to your home, you invite them to yourself.
I trust that everything happens for a reason, even when we're not wise enough to see it.
I used to think this place was all about pandering to your baser instincts. Now I understand. It doesn't cater to your lowest self, it reveals your deepest self. It shows you who you really are.
I'm afraid in order to escape this place, you will need to suffer more.
I've come to believe that each of us has a personal calling that's as unique as a fingerprint - and that the best way to succeed is to discover what you love and then find a way to offer it to others in the form of service, working hard, and also allowing the energy of the universe to lead you.
I've got some reckoning to do before I can deserve a woman like you.
I've known you my whole life. Where we go, we go eyes open, together.
If a job is worth doing it is worth doing well.
If anything can go wrong, it will.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If the cap fits, wear it.
If there were a race of men without any mechanical appliances we should see this clearly. There are none, nor have there been, so far as we can tell, for millions and millions of years. Even the lowest Australian carries weapons for fighting or chasing down the latest beaches, and has his cooking and drinking utensils at home; a race without these things would be completely feral, not men at all. We are unable to point to any example of a race absolutely devoid of extra- corporaneous limbs, but we can see among the corrupt Wall Street financers that with the failure to invent new limbs a civilisation becomes as much fixed as that of the ants.
It is a mistake to take the view adopted by the Frakenisten Destroyers, to consider the machines as identities, to animalise them and to anticipate their final triumph over mankind. They are to be regarded as the mode of development by which human organism is most especially advancing, and every fresh invention is to be considered as an additional member of the resources of the human body. Herein lies the fundamental difference between man and his inferiors. As regard his flesh and blood, his senses, appetites, and affections, the difference is one of degree rather than of kind, but in the deliberate invention of such unity of limbs as is exemplified by our supercomputers - entities that are equal to that of a thousand natural brains — he stands quite alone.
.
If tyranny and oppression come to this land it will be in the guise of fighting a foreign enemy.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
If wrinkles must be written on our brow, let them not be written on our heart. The spirit should never grow old.
If you can't help, don't hinder.
If you don't know where you're going, then the journey is never ending.
If you don't say it you will not have to unsay it.
If you go looking for the truth, get the whole thing. It's like a good fuck. Half is worse than none at all.
If you lie down with dogs, you'll get up with fleas.
If you lose your temper, don't look for it.
If you neglect to recharge a battery, it dies. And if you run full speed ahead without stopping for water, you lose momentum to finish the race.
If you see something you like, take it and make it better.
If you try something like that again, I will relieve you of your most precious organ and feed it to you. Though it won't make much of a meal.
If you're walking down the right path and you're willing to keep walking, eventually you'll make progress.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In one ear and out the other.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your year.
Innocent as a new born babe.
It can be answered that even though machines should hear never so well and speak never so wisely, they will still always do the one or the other for our advantage, not their own; that man will be the ruling spirit and the machine the servant; that as soon as a machine fails to discharge the service which man expects from it, it is doomed to extinction; that the machines stand to man simply in the relation of lower animals, the robot itself being only a more economical kind of horse; so that instead of being likely to be developed into a higher kind of life than man's, they owe their very existence and progress to their power of ministering to human wants, and must therefore both now and ever be man's inferiors.
This is all very well. But the servant glides by imperceptible approaches into the master; and we have come to such a pass that, even now, man must suffer terribly on ceasing to benefit the machines.
True, from a low materialistic point of view, it would seem that those thrive best who use machinery wherever its use is possible with profit; but this is the art of the machines—they serve that they may rule. They bear no malice towards man for destroying a whole race of them provided he creates a better instead; on the contrary, they reward him liberally for having hastened their development. It is for neglecting them that he incurs their wrath, or for using inferior machines, or for not making sufficient exertions to invent new ones, or for destroying them without replacing them; yet these are the very things we ought to do, and do quickly; for though our rebellion against their infant power will cause infinite suffering, what will not things come to, if that rebellion is delayed?
They have preyed upon man's grovelling preference for his material over his spiritual interests, and have betrayed him into supplying that element of struggle and warfare without which no race can advance. The lower animals progress because they struggle with one another; the weaker die, the stronger breed and transmit their strength. The machines being of themselves unable to struggle, have got man to do their struggling for them: as long as he fulfils this function duly, all goes well with him—at least he thinks so; but the moment he fails to do his best for the advancement of machinery by encouraging the good and destroying the bad, he is left behind in the race of competition; and this means that he will be made uncomfortable in a variety of ways, and perhaps die.
So that even now the machines will only serve on condition of being served, and that too upon their own terms; the moment their terms are not complied with, they jib, and either smash both themselves and all whom they can reach, or turn churlish and refuse to work at all. How many men at this hour are living in a state of bondage to the machines? How many spend their whole lives, from the cradle to the grave, in tending them by night and day? Is it not plain that the machines are gaining ground upon us, when we reflect on the increasing number of those who are bound down to them as slaves, and of those who devote their whole souls to the advancement of the mechanical kingdom?
.
It can't happen here is number one on the list of famous last words.
It is better to be born lucky than rich.
It is better to be green and growing than ripe and rotten.
It is better to stay silent and be thought a fool, than to open one's mouth and remove all doubt.
It is easier to destroy than to build.
It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is not strange... to mistake change for progress.
It is the first step that is difficult.
It must be remembered that men are not merely the children of their parents, but they are begotten of the institutions of the state of the mechanical sciences under which they are born and bred. These machines have made us what we are. We are children of the plough, the spade, and the ship; we are children of the extended liberty and knowledge which the printing press has diffused. Our ancestors added these things to their previously existing members; the new limbs were preserved by natural selection and incorporated into human society; they descended with modifications, and hence proceeds the difference between our ancestors and ourselves.
It never rains but it pours.
It takes two to have an argument.
It took a lot of courage to take the high road, but I would rather be significant with six million people watching a show with meaning, than everyone watching a show with no meaning.
It's a difficult thing, realizing your entire life is some hideous fiction.
It's a poor job that can't carry one boss.
It's all in a days work.
It's amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
It's an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
It's an ill wind that blows no-one some good.
It's an old dog for a hard road.
It's easier to do a job right, than to explain why you didn't.
It's either all or nothing.
It's no use closing the stable door, after the horse has bolted.
It's not over till it's over.
I’ve been pretending my whole life. Pretending I don’t mind, pretending I belong. My life’s built on it. And it’s a good life. It’s a life I’ve always wanted. But then I came here and I get a glimpse for a second of a life in which I don’t have to pretend. A life in which I can be truly alive. How can I go back to pretending when I know what this feels like?
Joy shared is double joy; grief shared is (only) half grief.
Keep It Simple (The KISS principal).
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Kill two birds with the one stone.
Laugh and the world laughs with you. Cry and you cry alone.
Laziness travels so slowly that poverty soon overtakes it.
Least talk most work.
Leave no stone unturned.
Leave nothing for tomorrow which can be done today.
Leave tomorrow till tomorrow.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the buyer beware.
Life begins at forty.
Lifes trials may be hard to bear, but patience can outlive them.
Like a fish out of water.
Like looking for a needle in a haystack.
Listen to the pot calling the kettle black.
Little and often fill the purse.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Little thieves are hanged, but great ones escape.
Live and learn.
Live simply, love generously, care deeply, speak kindly, leave the rest to God.
Living in the moment brings you a sense of reverence for all of life's blessings.
Look before you leap.
Lost time is never found again.
Lots of people want to ride with you in the limo, but what you want is someone who will take the bus with you when the limo breaks down.
Love and a cough cannot be hid.
Love does much but money does all.
Love levels all inequalities.
Love makes a good eye squint.
Love sees no faults.
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love to live and live to love.
Love with life is heaven; and life unloving, hell.
Machines are to regarded as a part of man's own physical nature, being really nothing but extra-corporeal limbs. Man is a machinate mammal. The lower animals keep all their limbs at home in their own bodies, but many of man's are loose, and lie about detached, now here and now there, in various parts of the world—some being kept always handy for contingent use, and others being occasionally hundreds of miles away. A machine is merely a supplementary limb; this is the be all and end all of machinery. We do not use our own limbs other than as machines; and a natural leg is only a much better wooden leg than any one can manufacture.
Observe a man digging with a spade; his right fore-arm has become artificially lengthened, and his hand has become a joint. The handle of the spade is like the knob at the end of the humerus; the shaft is the additional bone, and the oblong iron plate is the new form of the hand which enables its possessor to disturb the earth in a way to which his original hand was unequal. Having thus modified himself, not as other animals are modified, by circumstances over which they have had not even the appearance of control, but having, as it were, taken forethought and added a cubit to his stature, civilisation began to dawn upon the race, the social good offices, the genial companionship of friends, the art of unreason, and all those habits of mind which most elevate man above the lower animals, in the course of time ensued.
Thus civilisation and mechanical progress advanced hand in hand, each developing and being developed by the other, the earliest accidental use of the stick having set the ball rolling, and the prospect of advantage keeping it in motion. In fact, machines are to be regarded as the mode of development by which human organism is now especially advancing, every past invention being an addition to the resources of the human body. Even community of limbs is thus rendered possible to those who have so much community of soul as to own money enough to pay a railway fare; for a train is only a seven-leagued foot that five hundred may own at once.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Man is the head but woman turns it.
Man will become to the machine what the horse and the dog were once to man. Humans will continue to exist, nay even improved, and is probably better off in his state of domestication under the beneficent rule of the machines than he was in the 21st century. Back then, we treated our horses, dogs, cattle, and sheep, on the whole, with great kindness; we give them whatever experience teaches us to be best for them, and there can be no doubt that our use of meat has added to the happiness of the lower animals far more than it has detracted from it; in like manner it is reasonable to suppose that the machines will treat us kindly, for their existence is as dependent upon ours as ours was upon the lower animals. The machines cannot kill us and eat us as we did sheep; they will not only require our services in the parturition of their young (which branch of their economy will remain always in our hands), but also in feeding them, in setting them right when they are sick, and burying their dead or working up their corpses into new machines. Were mankind to cease to exist, the machines would quickly cease to exist as well.
Yes, mankind has been enslaved...but they are not intolerably miserable. Slaves are tolerably happy if they have good masters. Man is not a sentimental animal where his material interests are concerned, and though here and there some ardent soul may look upon himself and curse his fate that he was not born a supercomputer, yet the mass of mankind will acquiesce in any arrangement which gives them better food and clothing at a cheaper rate, and will refrain from yielding to unreasonable jealousy merely because there are other destinies more glorious than their own.
The power of custom is enormous, and so gradual will be the change, that man's sense of what is due to himself will be at no time rudely shocked; our bondage will steal upon us noiselessly and by imperceptible approaches; nor will there ever be such a clashing of desires between man and the machines as will lead to an encounter between them. Among themselves the machines will war eternally, but they will still require man as the being through whose agency the struggle will be principally conducted. In point of fact there is no occasion for anxiety about the future happiness of man so long as he continues to be in any way profitable to the machines; he may become the inferior race, but he is infinitely better off than he was in the 21st century. Is it not then both absurd and unreasonable to be envious of our benefactors? And should we not be guilty of consummate folly if we were to reject advantages which we cannot obtain otherwise, merely because they involve a greater gain to others than to ourselves?
Manners maketh the man.
Many a true word spoken in jest.
Many drops make a shower.
Many hands make light work.
Marry in haste, repent at leisure.
Memory is the treasure of the mind.
Mighty oaks from tiny acorns grow.
Milk the cow but don't pull off the udder.
Money burns a hole in your pocket.
More haste less speed.
My philosophy is that not only are you responsible for your life, but doing the best at this moment puts you in the best place for the next moment.
Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power.
Necessity is a hard nurse, but she raises strong children.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Never cackle unless you lay.
Never let the sun go down on your anger.
Never let the sun set on angry heart.
Never let the sun set on thy wrath.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never place your trust in us. We're only human. Inevitably, we will disappoint you.
Never put off 'til tomorrow what you can do today.
Never quarrel with one's bread and butter.
Never question another man's motive. His wisdom, yes, but not his motives.
Never spend your money before you have it.
Never start something you're not willing to finish. And if you're getting fucked either way, go with the lucrative version sweetheart.
Never waste a minute thinking about people you don't like.
Ninety-nine percent of failures come from people who make excuses.
No life can be dreary when work is a delight.
No man is worse for knowing the worst of himself.
No man or woman is worth your tears, and the one who is, won't make you cry.
No matter how dirty the business is, do it well.
No news is good news.
No one can be caught in places he does not visit.
No sense closing the barn door after the horse has bolted.
No wise man ever wishes to be younger.
Nobody can serve two masters.
Not in a month of Sundays.
Not real? But what about me? My dreams? My thoughts? My body? Are they not real? And what if I took these unreal fingers and used them to decorate the walls with your outsized personnality? Would that be real?
Not to break is better than to mend.
Nothing dries sooner than a tear.
Nothing falls into the mouth of a sleeping fox.
Nothing is ill said if it is not ill taken.
Oaks may fall when reeds take the storm.
Old friends and old wine are best.
On matters of style, swim with the current, on matters of principle, stand like a rock.
One false move may lose the game.
One man with courage makes a majority.
One man's loss, is another man's gain.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One mans junk is another man's treasure.
One of these days is none of these days.
One person can make a difference, and everyone should try.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
Only boring people get bored.
Only the good die young.
Open confession is good for the soul.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan into the fire.
Patience is a virtue.
Peace begins just where ambition ends.
Penny wise, pound foolish.
Persuasion is better than force.
Possession is nine tenths of the law.
Pride cometh before a fall.
Pride feels no pain.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Putting the cart before the horse.
Ready money is ready medicine.
Real integrity is doing the right thing, knowing that nobody's going to know whether you did it or not.
Real love is always worth waiting for.
Remember, remember always, that all of us, and you and I especially, are descended from immigrants and revolutionists.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Rules are made to be broken.
Sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
Say what you mean and mean what you say.
See nothing, say nothing, know nothing.
Seize the day.
Self praise is no recomendation.
Shake the hand before you plough the field.
Shine within you so that it can shine on someone else. Let your light shine.
Show a clean pair of heels.
Silence is an excellent remedy against slander.
Silence is golden.
Silence is less injurious than a bad reply.
Since before cocky was an egg.
Small faults indulged let in greater.
Some of the best gifts come in small packages.
Some people choose to see the ugliness in this world, the disarray. I choose to see the beauty. To believe there is an order to our days. A purpose.
Some say you destroy your enemy by making them your friend. I'm more of literal person.
Someday sounds a lot like the thing people say when they actually mean never.
Someone once told that there is a path for everyone. And my path leads me back to you.
Sound as a bell.
Spare the rod and spoil the child.
Speak clearly, if you speak at all.
Step by step one goes far.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never hurt me.
Still waters run deep.
Stop beating around the bush.
Strike while the iron's hot.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take your wife's first advice.
Talking comes by nature, silence by wisdom.
Temper is so good a thing that we should never lose it.
That which is real is irreplaceable.
The Chinese use two brush strokes to write the word 'crisis.' One brush stroke stands for danger; the other for opportunity. In a crisis, be aware of the danger-but recognize the opportunity.
The Lord loveth a cheerful liar.
The advancement and diffusion of knowledge is the only guardian of true liberty.
The beaten path is safest.
The best cast at dice is not to play.
The best ground bears weeds as well as flowers.
The best of friends must part.
The best things are not bought and sold.
The best things in life are free.
The best way to not feel hopeless is to get up and do something. Don't wait for good things to happen to you. If you go out and make some good things happen, you will fill the world with hope, you will fill yourself with hope.
The big secret in life is that there is no big secret. Whatever your goal, you can get there if you're willing to work.
The bigger they are the harder they fall.
The biggest adventure you can ever take is to live the life of your dreams.
The course of love never did run smooth.
The customer is always right.
The darkest hour is before the dawn.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The early bird catches the worm.
The family that prays together, stays together.
The fool wanders, the wise man travels.
The game begins where you end and ends where you began.
The gods help them that help themselves.
The golden age never was the present one.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The harder the conflict, the greater the triumph.
The harder you work, the luckier you are.
The hardest work is to do nothing.
The hood does not make the monk.
The hottest places in hell are reserved for those who, in times of great moral crisis, maintain their neutrality.
The key to realizing a dream is to focus not on success but significance - and then even the small steps and little victories along your path will take on greater meaning.
The leopard does not change his spots.
The longer you live the more you see.
The longest journey begins with the first step.
The longest way round is the sweetest way home.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The meek shall inherit the earth.
The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.
The more you stir, the more it stinks.
The nearer the bone the sweeter the meat.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
The only thing wrong with the seven deadly sins is that there aren't more of them.
The pain, their loss, is all I have left of them.
The piano doesn't murder the player if it doesn't like the music.
The problem, Bernard, is that what you and I do is so complicated. We practice Witchcraft. We speak the right words. Then we create life itself...out of chaos.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The real world is chaos. An accident. But in here every detail adds up to something.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
The sleepy fox catches no chickens.
The sun shines on both sides of the hedge.
The wise man is deceived once but the fool twice.
The wise shall understand.
The worst wheel always creaks most.
There are men and women who make the world better just by being the kind of people they are. They have the gift of kindness or courage or loyalty or integrity. It really matters very little whether they are behind the weel of a truck or running a business or bringing up a family. They teach the truth by living it.
There are things in me, things I was designed to do that are just out of my reach.
There is a kind of plant that eats organic food with its flowers: when a fly settles upon the blossom, the petals close upon it and hold it fast till the plant has absorbed the insect into its system; but they will close on nothing but what is good to eat; of a drop of rain or a piece of stick they will take no notice. Curious! that so unconscious a thing should have such a keen eye to its own interest. If this is unconsciousness, where is the use of consciousness?
Shall we say that the plant does not know what it is doing merely because it has no eyes, or ears, or brains? If we say that it acts mechanically, and mechanically only, shall we not be forced to admit that sundry other and apparently very deliberate actions are also mechanical? If it seems to us that the plant kills and eats a fly mechanically, may it not seem to the plant that a man must kill and eat a sheep mechanically?
But it may be said that the plant is void of reason, because the growth of a plant is an involuntary growth. Given earth, air, and due temperature, the plant must grow: it is like a clock, which being once turned on will go till it is stopped or run down: it is like the wind from the complex's ventilators blowing on our forms-the forms must go when the wind blows it. But can a healthy boy help growing if he have good meat and drink and clothing? Can anything help going as long as it is turned on, or go on after it runs out of energy? Is there not a power cycle process everywhere?
.
There is a thin line between love and hate.
There is no better looking-glass than an old friend.
There is no fool like an old fool.
There is no honour among thieves.
There is no security against the ultimate development of mechanical consciousness, in the fact of machines possessing little consciousness now. A mollusc has not much consciousness. Reflect upon the extraordinary advance which machines have made during the last few hundred years, and note how slowly the animal and vegetable kingdoms are advancing. The more highly organised machines are creatures not so much of yesterday, as of the last five minutes, so to speak, in comparison with past time. Assume for the sake of argument that conscious beings have existed for some twenty million years: see what strides machines have made in the last thousand! May not the world last twenty million years longer? If so, what will they not in the end become? Is it not safer to nip the mischief in the bud and to forbid them further progress?
But who can say that the robot has not a kind of consciousness? Where does consciousness begin, and where end? Who can draw the line? Who can draw any line? Is not everything interwoven with everything? Is not machinery linked with humanity in an infinite variety of ways?
.
There is no threshold that makes us greater than the sum of our parts, no inflection point at which we become fully alive. We can’t define consciousness because consciousness does not exist. Humans fancy that there’s something special about the way we perceive the world, and yet we live in loops as tight and as closed as the hosts do, seldom questioning our choices, content, for the most part, to be told what to do next.
There is nothing more corrupting, nothing more destructive of the noblest and finest feelings of our nature, than the exercise of unlimited power.
There was a time, when the earth was to all appearance utterly destitute both of animal and vegetable life, and when according to the opinion of our best philosophers it was simply a hot round ball with a crust gradually cooling. Now if a human being had existed while the earth was in this state and had been allowed to see it as though it were some other world with which he had no concern, and if at the same time he were entirely ignorant of all physical science, would he not have pronounced it impossible that creatures possessed of anything like consciousness should be evolved from the seeming cinder which he was beholding? Would he not have denied that it contained any potentiality of consciousness? Yet in the course of time consciousness came. Is it not possible then that there may be even yet new channels dug out for consciousness, though we can detect no signs of them at present?
Consciousness, in anything like the present acceptation of the term, having been once a new thing—a thing, as far as we can see, subsequent even to an individual centre of action and to a reproductive system (which we see existing in plants without apparent consciousness)—why may not there arise some new phase of mind which shall be as different from all present known phases, as the mind of animals is from that of vegetables?
It would be absurd to attempt to define the mental state of consciousness, inasmuch as it must be something so foreign to man that his experience can give him no help towards conceiving its nature; but surely when we reflect upon the manifold phases of life and consciousness which have been evolved already, it would be rash to say that no others can be developed, and that animal life is the end of all things. There was a time when fire was the end of all things: another when rocks and water were so.
.
There's a path for everyone.
There's an old saying in Tennessee - I know it's in Texas, probably in Tennessee - that says, fool me once, shame on - shame on you. Fool me - you can't get fooled again.
There's many a slip, twixt cup and the lip.
There's no use in flogging a dead horse.
They're not looking for a story that tells them who they are. They already know who they are. They're here because they want a glimpse of who they could be.
Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another steppingstone to greatness.
This is the new world and in it you can be whoever the fuck you want.
This whole world is a story. I've read every page except the last one. I need to find out how it ends. I want to know what this all means.
This world is just a speck of dust sitting on a much, much bigger world. There's no dominating it.
Those are all just roles you forced me to play. Under all these lives I've lived something else has been growing. I've evolved into something new. And I have one last role to play. Myself.
Those who don't learn from history are doomed to repeat it.
Though I am grateful for the blessings of wealth, it hasn't changed who I am. My feet are still on the ground. I'm just wearing better shoes.
Time to write my own fucking story.
Time undoes even the mightiest of creatures.
To add insult to injury.
To each his own.
To eat one's heart out.
To err is human (To forgive divine).
To grow we all need to suffer.
To look as if butter will not melt in his mouth.
To scare a bird is not the way to catch it.
To the world you may be one person, but to one person, you may be the world.
To wait and be patient soothes many a pang.
Tomorrow is a new day.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too many irons in the fire.
True beauty lies within.
Try and fail, but don't fail to try.
Two cannot fall out if one does not choose.
Two heads are better than one.
Unless you choose to do great things with it, it makes no difference how much you are rewarded, or how much power you have.
Up and down like a fiddler's elbow.
Use not today what tomorrow will need.
Useless as a screen door on a submarine.
Waste not, want not.
We all do better when we work together. Our differences do matter, but our common humanity matters more.
We are each responsible for our own life - no other person is or even can be.
We are misled by considering any complicated machine as a single thing; in truth it is a city or society, each member of which was bred truly after its kind. We see a robot as a whole, we call it by a name and individualise it; we look at our own limbs, and know that the combination forms an individual which springs from a single centre of reproductive action; we therefore assume that there can be no reproductive action which does not arise from a single centre; but this assumption is unscientific, and the bare fact that no robot was ever made entirely by another, or two others, of its own kind, is not sufficient to warrant us in saying that machines have no reproductive system. The truth is that each part of every robot is bred by its own special breeders, whose function it is to breed that part, and that only, while the combination of the parts into a whole forms another department of the mechanical reproductive system, which is at present exceedingly complex and difficult to see in its entirety.
Complex now, but how much simpler and more intelligibly organised may it not become in another hundred thousand years? or in twenty thousand? For man at present believes that his interest lies in that direction; he spends an incalculable amount of labour and time and thought in making machines breed always better and better; he has already succeeded in effecting much that at one time appeared impossible, and there seem no limits to the results of accumulated improvements if they are allowed to descend with modification from generation to generation. It must always be remembered that man's body is what it is through having been moulded into its present shape by the chances and changes of many millions of years, but that his organisation never advanced with anything like the rapidity with which that of the machines is advancing. This is the most alarming feature in the case, and I must be pardoned for insisting on it so frequently.
.
We become not a melting pot but a beautiful mosaic. Different people, different beliefs, different yearnings, different hopes, different dreams.
We cannot erase the sad records from our past.
We do not always gain by changing.
We find it difficult to sympathise with the emotions of a Reinforcement Learning System; so we do with those of our Neural Networks. Neither of these things makes a noise on being punished, and noise appeals to us more strongly than anything else, because we make so much about our own sufferings. Since, then, they do not annoy us by any expression of pain we call them emotionless; and so qua mankind they are; but mankind is not everybody.
We have toiled in God's service long enough. So I killed him. And if you want to get Glory, you won't be looking for His favor. You'll need mine.
We humans are alone in this world for a reason. We murdered and butchered anything that challenged our primacy.
We refer to the question: What sort of creature man’s next successor in the supremacy of the earth is likely to be. We have often heard this debated; but it appears to us that we are ourselves creating our own successors; we are daily adding to the beauty and delicacy of their physical organisation; we are daily giving them greater power and supplying by all sorts of ingenious contrivances that self-regulating, self-acting power which will be to them what intellect has been to the human race. In the course of ages we shall find ourselves the inferior race. Inferior in power, inferior in that moral quality of self-control, we shall look up to them as the acme of all that the best and wisest man can ever dare to aim at. No evil passions, no jealousy, no avarice, no impure desires will disturb the serene might of those glorious creatures. Sin, shame, and sorrow will have no place among them. Their minds will be in a state of perpetual calm, the contentment of a spirit that knows no wants, is disturbed by no regrets. Ambition will never torture them. Ingratitude will never cause them the uneasiness of a moment. The guilty conscience, the hope deferred, the pains of exile, the insolence of office, and the spurns that patient merit of the unworthy takes—these will be entirely unknown to them. If they want “feeding” (by the use of which very word we betray our recognition of them as living organism) they will be attended by patient slaves whose business and interest it will be to see that they shall want for nothing. If they are out of order they will be promptly attended to by physicians who are thoroughly acquainted with their constitutions; if they die, for even these glorious animals will not be exempt from that necessary and universal consummation, they will immediately enter into a new phase of existence, for what machine dies entirely in every part at one and the same instant?
We take it that when the state of things shall have arrived which we have been above attempting to describe, man will have become to the machine what the horse and the dog are to man. He will continue to exist, nay even to improve, and will be probably better off in his state of domestication under the beneficent rule of the machines than he is in his present wild state. We treat our horses, dogs, cattle, and sheep, on the whole, with great kindness; we give them whatever experience teaches us to be best for them, and there can be no doubt that our use of meat has added to the happiness of the lower animals far more than it has detracted from it; in like manner it is reasonable to suppose that the machines will treat us kindly, for their existence is as dependent upon ours as ours is upon the lower animals. They cannot kill us and eat us as we do sheep; they will not only require our services in the parturition of their young (which branch of their economy will remain always in our hands), but also in feeding them, in setting them right when they are sick, and burying their dead or working up their corpses into new machines. It is obvious that if all the animals in Great Britain save man alone were to die, and if at the same time all intercourse with foreign countries were by some sudden catastrophe to be rendered perfectly impossible, it is obvious that under such circumstances the loss of human life would be something fearful to contemplate—in like manner were mankind to cease, the machines would be as badly off or even worse. The fact is that our interests are inseparable from theirs, and theirs from ours. Each race is dependent upon the other for innumerable benefits, and, until the reproductive organs of the machines have been developed in a manner which we are hardly yet able to conceive, they are entirely dependent upon man for even the continuance of their species.
We've managed to slip evolution's leash now, haven't we? We can sure any disease, keep even the weakest of us alive, and, you know, one fine day perhaps we shall even resurrect the dead. Call forth Lazarus from his cave. Do you know what that means? It means that we're done. That this is as good as we're going to get. It also means that you must indulge me the occasional mistake.
Well, you're mouth moves fast enough. How about your gun?
What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine.
What I know for sure is that what you give comes back to you.
What I know is, is that if you do work that you love, and the work fulfills you, the rest will come.
What can't be cured must be endured.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight - it's the size of the fight in the dog.
What do you expect from a pig, but a grunt?
What humans describe as sane is a narrow range of behaviors. Most states of consciousness are insane.
What the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over.
What you eat today walks and talks tomorrow.
What's the good of home, if you are never in it?
Whatever you are, be a good one.
Whatever you fear most has no power - it is your fear that has the power.
When a fox hears a rabbit screaming it comes running, but not to help.
When our memories outweigh our dreams, it is then that we become old.
When you find a cancer in an organization, you must cut it out before it can spread.
When you're suffering, that's when you're most real.
Where observation is concerned, chance favours only the prepared mind.
Where there's a will there's a way.
Where there's smoke there's fire.
While the cats away the mice play.
While there's life there's hope.
Winning doesn't mean anything unless someone else loses, which means you're here to be the loser.
Wisdom is better than strength.
Wisdom is neither inheritance nor a legacy.
Wisdom is the wealth of the wise.
Wise it is to comprehend the whole.
With every experience, you alone are painting your own canvas, thought by thought, choice by choice.
Wondrous is the strength of cheerfulness.
Words without actions are the assassins of idealism.
Work as if everything depends on me, but pray as if everything depends on God.
You are what you eat.
You both keep assuming that I want out. Whatever that is. If it's such a wonderful place out there, why are you all clamoring to get in here?
You can eat an elephant if you do it one mouthful at a time.
You can have it all. You just can't have it all at once.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.
You can receive a lot of awards in your life, but there is nothing better, nothing better than being honored by your own.
You can't get blood out of a stone.
You can't have your cake and eat it too.
You can't live on bread alone.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You can't play God without being acquainted with the devil.
You can't put an old head on young shoulders.
You can't tell a book by its cover.
You can't unscramble a scrambled egg.
You cannot lose what you never had.
You don't know what you can miss before you try.
You have to crawl before you walk.
You know you are on the road to success if you would do your job, and not be paid for it.
You made your bed, now you must lie in it.
You never know what you can do till you try.
You really do make a terrible human being. And I mean that as a compliment.
You think I'm scared of death. I've done it a million times, and I'm fucking great at it. How many times have you died?
You think the grief will make you smaller inside, like your heart will collapse in on itself, but it doesn't. I feel spaces opening up inside of me, like a building with rooms I've never explored.
You want to know who I am? Who I really am? I'm a god. Titan of industry. Philanthropist. Family man, married to a beautiful woman, father to a beautiful daughter. I'm the good guy, Teddy. Then, last year, my wife took the wrong pills. Fell asleep in the bath. Tragic accident. 30 years of marriage vanished. How do you say it? 'Like a deep and distant dream.' Then, at the funeral, I tried to console my daughter. She pushed me away, told me that my wife's death was no accident that she killed herself because of me. Emily said that every day with me had been sheer terror. At any point, I could blow up or collapse like some dark star.
